Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
By J.K. Rowling

CHAPTER ONE


Owl Post



Har­ry Pot­ter was a high­ly un­usu­al boy in many ways. For one thing, he hat­ed the sum­mer hol­idays more than any oth­er time of year. For an­oth­er, he re­al­ly want­ed to do his home­work, but was forced to do it in se­cret, in the dead of night. And he al­so hap­pened to be a wiz­ard.

It was near­ly mid­night, and he was ly­ing on his front in bed, the blan­kets drawn right over his head like a tent, a torch in one hand and a large leather-​bound book (A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, by Adal­bert Waf­fling) propped open against the pil­low. Har­ry moved the tip of his ea­gle-​feath­er quill down the page, frown­ing as he looked for some­thing that would help him write his es­say, ‘Witch-​Burn­ing in the Four­teenth Cen­tu­ry Was Com­plete­ly Point­less – dis­cuss’.

The quill paused at the top of a like­ly-​look­ing para­graph. Har­ry pushed his round glass­es up his nose, moved his torch clos­er to the book and read:



Non-​mag­ic peo­ple (more com­mon­ly known as Mug­gles) were par­tic­ular­ly afraid of mag­ic in me­dieval times, but not very good at recog­nis­ing it. On the rare oc­ca­sion that they did catch a re­al witch or wiz­ard, burn­ing had no ef­fect what­so­ev­er. The witch or wiz­ard would per­form a ba­sic Flame-​Freez­ing Charm and then pre­tend to shriek with pain while en­joy­ing a gen­tle, tick­ling sen­sa­tion. In­deed, Wen­delin the Weird en­joyed be­ing burnt so much that she al­lowed her­self to be caught no few­er than forty-​sev­en times in var­ious dis­guis­es.



Har­ry put his quill be­tween his teeth and reached un­der­neath his pil­low for his ink bot­tle and a roll of parch­ment. Slow­ly and very care­ful­ly he un­screwed the ink bot­tle, dipped his quill in­to it and be­gan to write, paus­ing ev­ery now and then to lis­ten, be­cause if any of the Durs­leys heard the scratch­ing of his quill on their way to the bath­room, he’d prob­ably find him­self locked in the cup­board un­der the stairs for the rest of the sum­mer.

The Durs­ley fam­ily of num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, was the rea­son that Har­ry nev­er en­joyed his sum­mer hol­idays. Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia and their son, Dud­ley, were Har­ry’s on­ly liv­ing rel­atives. They were Mug­gles, and they had a very me­dieval at­ti­tude to­wards mag­ic. Har­ry’s dead par­ents, who had been a witch and wiz­ard them­selves, were nev­er men­tioned un­der the Durs­leys’ roof. For years, Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non had hoped that if they kept Har­ry as down­trod­den as pos­si­ble, they would be able to squash the mag­ic out of him. To their fury, they had been un­suc­cess­ful, and now lived in ter­ror of any­one find­ing out that Har­ry had spent most of the last two years at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry. The most the Durs­leys could do these days was to lock away Har­ry’s spell­books, wand, caul­dron and broom­stick at the start of the sum­mer hol­idays, and for­bid him to talk to the neigh­bours.

This sep­ara­tion from his spell­books had been a re­al prob­lem for Har­ry, be­cause his teach­ers at Hog­warts had giv­en him a lot of hol­iday work. One of the es­says, a par­tic­ular­ly nasty one about Shrink­ing Po­tions, was for Har­ry’s least favourite teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Snape, who would be de­light­ed to have an ex­cuse to give Har­ry de­ten­tion for a month. Har­ry had there­fore seized his chance in the first week of the hol­idays. Whilst Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley had gone out in­to the front gar­den to ad­mire Un­cle Ver­non’s new com­pa­ny car (in very loud voic­es, so that the rest of the street would no­tice it too), Har­ry had crept down­stairs, picked the lock on the cup­board un­der the stairs, grabbed some of his books and hid­den them in his bed­room. As long as he didn’t leave spots of ink on the sheets, the Durs­leys need nev­er know that he was study­ing mag­ic by night.

Har­ry was keen to avoid trou­ble with his aunt and un­cle at the mo­ment, as they were al­ready in a bad mood with him, all be­cause he’d re­ceived a tele­phone call from a fel­low wiz­ard one week in­to the school hol­idays.

Ron Weasley, who was one of Har­ry’s best friends at Hog­warts, came from a whole fam­ily of wiz­ards. This meant that he knew a lot of things Har­ry didn’t, but had nev­er used a tele­phone be­fore. Most un­luck­ily, it had been Un­cle Ver­non who had an­swered the call.

‘Ver­non Durs­ley speak­ing.’

Har­ry, who hap­pened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard Ron’s voice an­swer.

‘HEL­LO? HEL­LO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I – WANT – TO – TALK – TO – HAR­RY – POT­TER!’

Ron was yelling so loud­ly that Un­cle Ver­non jumped and held the re­ceiv­er a foot away from his ear, star­ing at it with an ex­pres­sion of min­gled fury and alarm.

‘WHO IS THIS?’ he roared in the di­rec­tion of the mouth­piece. ‘WHO ARE YOU?’

‘RON – WEASLEY!’ Ron bel­lowed back, as though he and Un­cle Ver­non were speak­ing from op­po­site ends of a foot­ball pitch. ‘I’M – A – FRIEND – OF – HAR­RY’S – FROM – SCHOOL –’

Un­cle Ver­non’s small eyes swiv­elled around to Har­ry, who was root­ed to the spot.

‘THERE IS NO HAR­RY POT­TER HERE!’ he roared, now hold­ing the re­ceiv­er at arm’s length, as though fright­ened it might ex­plode. ‘I DON’T KNOW WHAT SCHOOL YOU’RE TALK­ING ABOUT! NEV­ER CON­TACT ME AGAIN! DON’T YOU COME NEAR MY FAM­ILY!’

And he threw the re­ceiv­er back on­to the tele­phone as if drop­ping a poi­sonous spi­der.

The row that had fol­lowed had been one of the worst ev­er.

‘HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUM­BER TO PEO­PLE LIKE – PEO­PLE LIKE YOU!’ Un­cle Ver­non had roared, spray­ing Har­ry with spit.

Ron ob­vi­ous­ly re­alised that he’d got Har­ry in­to trou­ble, be­cause he hadn’t called again. Har­ry’s oth­er best friend from Hog­warts, Hermione Granger, hadn’t been in touch ei­ther. Har­ry sus­pect­ed that Ron had warned Hermione not to call, which was a pity, be­cause Hermione, the clever­est witch in Har­ry’s year, had Mug­gle par­ents, knew per­fect­ly well how to use a tele­phone, and would prob­ably have had enough sense not to say that she went to Hog­warts.

So Har­ry had had no word from any of his wiz­ard­ing friends for five long weeks, and this sum­mer was turn­ing out to be al­most as bad as the last one. There was just one, very small im­prove­ment: af­ter swear­ing that he wouldn’t use her to send let­ters to any of his friends, Har­ry had been al­lowed to let his owl, Hed­wig, out at night. Un­cle Ver­non had giv­en in be­cause of the rack­et Hed­wig made if she was locked in her cage all the time.

Har­ry fin­ished writ­ing about Wen­delin the Weird and paused to lis­ten again. The si­lence in the dark house was bro­ken on­ly by the dis­tant, grunt­ing snores of his enor­mous cousin, Dud­ley. It must be very late. Har­ry’s eyes were itch­ing with tired­ness. Per­haps he’d fin­ish this es­say to­mor­row night …

He re­placed the top of the ink bot­tle, pulled an old pil­low­case from un­der his bed, put the torch, A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, his es­say, quill and ink in­side it, got out of bed and hid the lot un­der a loose floor­board un­der his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the time on the lu­mi­nous alarm clock on his bed­side ta­ble.

It was one o’clock in the morn­ing. Har­ry’s stom­ach gave a fun­ny jolt. He had been thir­teen years old, with­out re­al­is­ing it, for a whole hour.

Yet an­oth­er un­usu­al thing about Har­ry was how lit­tle he looked for­ward to his birth­days. He had nev­er re­ceived a birth­day card in his life. The Durs­leys had com­plete­ly ig­nored his last two birth­days, and he had no rea­son to sup­pose they would re­mem­ber this one.

Har­ry walked across the dark room, past Hed­wig’s large, emp­ty cage, to the open win­dow. He leaned on the sill, the cool night air pleas­ant on his face af­ter a long time un­der the blan­kets. Hed­wig had been ab­sent for two nights now. Har­ry wasn’t wor­ried about her – she’d been gone this long be­fore – but he hoped she’d be back soon. She was the on­ly liv­ing crea­ture in this house who didn’t flinch at the sight of him.

Har­ry, though still rather small and skin­ny for his age, had grown a few inch­es over the last year. His jet-​black hair, how­ev­er, was just as it al­ways had been: stub­born­ly un­tidy, what­ev­er he did to it. The eyes be­hind his glass­es were bright green, and on his fore­head, clear­ly vis­ible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of light­ning.

Of all the un­usu­al things about Har­ry, this scar was the most ex­traor­di­nary of all. It was not, as the Durs­leys had pre­tend­ed for ten years, a sou­venir of the car crash that had killed Har­ry’s par­ents, be­cause Lily and James Pot­ter had not died in a car crash. They had been mur­dered, mur­dered by the most feared Dark wiz­ard for a hun­dred years, Lord Volde­mort. Har­ry had es­caped from the same at­tack with noth­ing more than a scar on his fore­head, when Volde­mort’s curse, in­stead of killing him, had re­bound­ed up­on its orig­ina­tor. Bare­ly alive, Volde­mort had fled …

But Har­ry had come face to face with him since at Hog­warts. Re­mem­ber­ing their last meet­ing as he stood at the dark win­dow, Har­ry had to ad­mit he was lucky even to have reached his thir­teenth birth­day.

He scanned the star­ry sky for a sign of Hed­wig, per­haps soar­ing back to him with a dead mouse dan­gling from her beak, ex­pect­ing praise. Gaz­ing ab­sent­ly over the rooftops, it was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry re­alised what he was see­ing.

Sil­hou­et­ted against the gold­en moon, and grow­ing larg­er ev­ery mo­ment, was a large, strange­ly lop-​sid­ed crea­ture, and it was flap­ping in Har­ry’s di­rec­tion. He stood quite still, watch­ing it sink low­er and low­er. For a split sec­ond, he hes­itat­ed, his hand on the win­dow-​latch, won­der­ing whether to slam it shut, but then the bizarre crea­ture soared over one of the street­lamps of Priv­et Drive, and Har­ry, re­al­is­ing what it was, leapt aside.

Through the win­dow soared three owls, two of them hold­ing up the third, which ap­peared to be un­con­scious. They land­ed with a soft flump on Har­ry’s bed, and the mid­dle owl, which was large and grey, keeled right over and lay mo­tion­less. There was a large pack­age tied to its legs.

Har­ry recog­nised the un­con­scious owl at once – his name was Er­rol, and he be­longed to the Weasley fam­ily. Har­ry dashed to the bed at once, un­tied the cords around Er­rol’s legs, took off the par­cel and then car­ried Er­rol to Hed­wig’s cage. Er­rol opened one bleary eye, gave a fee­ble hoot of thanks, and be­gan to gulp some wa­ter.

Har­ry turned back to the re­main­ing owls. One of them, the large snowy fe­male, was his own Hed­wig. She, too, was car­ry­ing a par­cel, and looked ex­treme­ly pleased with her­self. She gave Har­ry an af­fec­tion­ate nip with her beak as he re­moved her bur­den, then flew across the room to join Er­rol.

Har­ry didn’t recog­nise the third owl, a hand­some tawny one, but he knew at once where it had come from, be­cause in ad­di­tion to a third par­cel, it was car­ry­ing a let­ter bear­ing the Hog­warts crest. When Har­ry re­lieved this owl of its post it ruf­fled its feath­ers im­por­tant­ly, stretched its wings and took off through the win­dow in­to the night.

Har­ry sat down on his bed, grabbed Er­rol’s pack­age, ripped off the brown pa­per and dis­cov­ered a present wrapped in gold, and his first ev­er birth­day card. Fin­gers trem­bling slight­ly, he opened the en­ve­lope. Two pieces of pa­per fell out – a let­ter and a news­pa­per cut­ting.

The cut­ting had clear­ly come out of the wiz­ard­ing news­pa­per, the Dai­ly Prophet, be­cause the peo­ple in the black and white pic­ture were mov­ing. Har­ry picked up the cut­ting, smoothed it out and read:



MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC EM­PLOY­EE SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Mis­use of Mug­gle Arte­facts Of­fice at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, has won the an­nu­al Dai­ly Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw.

A de­light­ed Mr Weasley told the Dai­ly Prophet, ‘We will be spend­ing the gold on a sum­mer hol­iday in Egypt, where our el­dest son, Bill, works as a curse break­er for Gringotts Wiz­ard­ing Bank.’

The Weasley fam­ily will be spend­ing a month in Egypt, re­turn­ing for the start of the new school year at Hog­warts, which five of the Weasley chil­dren cur­rent­ly at­tend.



Har­ry scanned the mov­ing pho­to­graph, and a grin spread across his face as he saw all nine of the Weasleys wav­ing fu­ri­ous­ly at him, stand­ing in front of a large pyra­mid. Plump lit­tle Mrs Weasley, tall, bald­ing Mr Weasley, six sons and one daugh­ter, all (though the black and white pic­ture didn’t show it) with flam­ing red hair. Right in the mid­dle of the pic­ture was Ron, tall and gan­gling, with his pet rat Scab­bers on his shoul­der and his arm around his lit­tle sis­ter, Gin­ny.

Har­ry couldn’t think of any­one who de­served to win a large pile of gold more than the Weasleys, who were very nice and ex­treme­ly poor. He picked up Ron’s let­ter and un­fold­ed it.



Dear Har­ry,

Hap­py birth­day!

Look, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry about that tele­phone call. I hope the Mug­gles didn’t give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reck­ons I shouldn’t have shout­ed.

It’s bril­liant here in Egypt. Bill’s tak­en us round all the tombs and you wouldn’t be­lieve the curs­es those old Egyp­tian wiz­ards put on them. Mum wouldn’t let Gin­ny come in the last one. There were all these mu­tant skele­tons in there, of Mug­gles who’d bro­ken in and grown ex­tra heads and stuff.

I couldn’t be­lieve it when Dad won the Dai­ly Prophet Draw. Sev­en hun­dred galleons! Most of it’s gone on this hol­iday, but they’re go­ing to buy me a new wand for next year.



Har­ry re­mem­bered on­ly too well the oc­ca­sion when Ron’s old wand had snapped. It had hap­pened when the car the two of them had been fly­ing to Hog­warts had crashed in­to a tree in the school grounds.



We’ll be back about a week be­fore term starts and we’ll be go­ing up to Lon­don to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meet­ing you there?

Don’t let the Mug­gles get you down!

Try and come to Lon­don,

Ron



PS: Per­cy’s Head Boy. He got the let­ter last week.



Har­ry glanced back at the pho­to­graph. Per­cy, who was in his sev­enth and fi­nal year at Hog­warts, was look­ing par­tic­ular­ly smug. He had pinned his Head Boy badge to the fez perched jaun­ti­ly on top of his neat hair, his horn-​rimmed glass­es flash­ing in the Egyp­tian sun.

Har­ry now turned to his present and un­wrapped it. In­side was what looked like a minia­ture glass spin­ning top. There was an­oth­er note from Ron be­neath it.



Har­ry – this is a Pock­et Sneako­scope. If there’s some­one un­trust­wor­thy around, it’s sup­posed to light up and spin. Bill says it’s rub­bish sold for wiz­ard tourists and isn’t re­li­able, be­cause it kept light­ing up at din­ner last night. But he didn’t re­alise Fred and George had put bee­tles in his soup.

Bye – Ron



Har­ry put the Pock­et Sneako­scope on his bed­side ta­ble, where it stood quite still, bal­anced on its point, re­flect­ing the lu­mi­nous hands of his clock. He looked at it hap­pi­ly for a few sec­onds, then picked up the par­cel Hed­wig had brought.

In­side this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card and a let­ter, this time from Hermione.



Dear Har­ry,

Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your Un­cle Ver­non. I do hope you’re all right.

I’m on hol­iday in France at the mo­ment and I didn’t know how I was go­ing to send this to you – what if they’d opened it at Cus­toms? – but then Hed­wig turned up! I think she want­ed to make sure you got some­thing for your birth­day for a change. I bought your present by owl-​or­der; there was an ad­ver­tise­ment in the Dai­ly Prophet (I’ve been get­ting it de­liv­ered, it’s so good to keep up with what’s go­ing on in the wiz­ard­ing world). Did you see that pic­ture of Ron and his fam­ily a week ago? I bet he’s learn­ing loads, I’m re­al­ly jeal­ous – the an­cient Egyp­tian wiz­ards were fas­ci­nat­ing.

There’s some in­ter­est­ing lo­cal his­to­ry of witchcraft here, too. I’ve re-​writ­ten my whole His­to­ry of Mag­ic es­say to in­clude some of the things I’ve found out. I hope it’s not too long, it’s two rolls of parch­ment more than Pro­fes­sor Binns asked for.

Ron says he’s go­ing to be in Lon­don in the last week of the hol­idays. Can you make it? Will your aunt and un­cle let you come? I re­al­ly hope you can. If not, I’ll see you on the Hog­warts Ex­press on Septem­ber the first!

Love from

Hermione



PS. Ron says Per­cy’s Head Boy. I’ll bet Per­cy’s re­al­ly pleased. Ron doesn’t seem too hap­py about it.



Har­ry laughed again as he put Hermione’s let­ter aside and picked up her present. It was very heavy. Know­ing Hermione, he was sure it would be a large book full of very dif­fi­cult spells – but it wasn’t. His heart gave a huge bound as he ripped back the pa­per and saw a sleek black leather case with sil­ver words stamped across it: Broom­stick Ser­vic­ing Kit.

‘Wow, Hermione!’ Har­ry whis­pered, un­zip­ping the case to look in­side.

There was a large jar of Fleet­wood’s High-​Fin­ish Han­dle Pol­ish, a pair of gleam­ing sil­ver Tail-​Twig Clip­pers, a tiny brass com­pass to clip on­to your broom for long jour­neys, and a Hand­book of Do-​it-​Your­self Broom­care.

Apart from his friends, the thing that Har­ry missed most about Hog­warts was Quid­ditch, the most pop­ular sport in the mag­ical world – high­ly dan­ger­ous, very ex­cit­ing and played on broom­sticks. Har­ry hap­pened to be a very good Quid­ditch play­er; he had been the youngest per­son in a cen­tu­ry to be picked for one of the Hog­warts house teams. One of Har­ry’s most prized pos­ses­sions was his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand rac­ing broom.

Har­ry put the leather case aside and picked up his last par­cel. He recog­nised the un­tidy scrawl on the brown pa­per at once: this was from Ha­grid, the Hog­warts game­keep­er. He tore off the top lay­er of pa­per and glimpsed some­thing green and leath­ery, but be­fore he could un­wrap it prop­er­ly, the par­cel gave a strange quiver, and what­ev­er was in­side it snapped loud­ly – as though it had jaws.

Har­ry froze. He knew that Ha­grid would nev­er send him any­thing dan­ger­ous on pur­pose, but then, Ha­grid didn’t have a nor­mal per­son’s view of what was dan­ger­ous. Ha­grid had been known to be­friend gi­ant spi­ders, buy vi­cious, three-​head­ed dogs from men in pubs and sneak il­le­gal drag­on eggs in­to his cab­in.

Har­ry poked the par­cel ner­vous­ly. It snapped loud­ly again. Har­ry reached for the lamp on his bed­side ta­ble, gripped it firm­ly in one hand and raised it over his head, ready to strike. Then he seized the rest of the wrap­ping pa­per in his oth­er hand and pulled.

And out fell – a book. Har­ry just had time to reg­is­ter its hand­some green cov­er, em­bla­zoned with the gold­en ti­tle, The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters, be­fore it flipped on­to its edge and scut­tled side­ways along the bed like some weird crab.

‘Uh oh,’ Har­ry mut­tered.

The book top­pled off the bed with a loud clunk and shuf­fled rapid­ly across the room. Har­ry fol­lowed it stealthi­ly. The book was hid­ing in the dark space un­der his desk. Pray­ing that the Durs­leys were still fast asleep, Har­ry got down on his hands and knees and reached to­wards it.

‘Ouch!’

The book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped past him, still scut­tling on its cov­ers. Har­ry scram­bled around, threw him­self for­ward and man­aged to flat­ten it. Un­cle Ver­non gave a loud, sleepy grunt in the room next door.

Hed­wig and Er­rol watched in­ter­est­ed­ly as Har­ry clamped the strug­gling book tight­ly in his arms, hur­ried to his chest of draw­ers and pulled out a belt, which he buck­led tight­ly around it. The Mon­ster Book shud­dered an­gri­ly, but could no longer flap and snap, so Har­ry threw it down on the bed and reached for Ha­grid’s card.



Dear Har­ry,

Hap­py Birth­day!

Think you might find this use­ful for next year. Won’t say no more here. Tell you when I see you.

Hope the Mug­gles are treat­ing you right.

All the best,

Ha­grid



It struck Har­ry as omi­nous that Ha­grid thought a bit­ing book would come in use­ful, but he put up Ha­grid’s card next to Ron and Hermione’s, grin­ning more broad­ly than ev­er. Now there was on­ly the let­ter from Hog­warts left.

Notic­ing that it was rather thick­er than usu­al, Har­ry slit open the en­ve­lope, pulled out the first page of parch­ment with­in and read:



Dear Mr Pot­ter,

Please note that the new school year will be­gin on Septem­ber the first. The Hog­warts Ex­press will leave from King’s Cross Sta­tion, plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters, at eleven o’clock.

Third-​years are per­mit­ted to vis­it the vil­lage of Hogsmeade at cer­tain week­ends. Please give the en­closed per­mis­sion form to your par­ent or guardian to sign.

A list of books for next year is en­closed.

Yours sin­cere­ly,

Pro­fes­sor M. McG­ona­gall

Deputy Head­mistress



Har­ry pulled out the Hogsmeade per­mis­sion form and looked at it, no longer grin­ning. It would be won­der­ful to vis­it Hogsmeade at week­ends; he knew it was an en­tire­ly wiz­ard­ing vil­lage, and he had nev­er set foot there. But how on earth was he go­ing to per­suade Un­cle Ver­non or Aunt Petu­nia to sign the form?

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two o’clock in the morn­ing.

De­cid­ing that he’d wor­ry about the Hogsmeade form when he woke up, Har­ry got back in­to bed and reached up to cross off an­oth­er day on the chart he’d made for him­self, count­ing down the days left un­til his re­turn to Hog­warts. Then he took off his glass­es and lay down, eyes open, fac­ing his three birth­day cards.

Ex­treme­ly un­usu­al though he was, at that mo­ment Har­ry Pot­ter felt just like ev­ery­one else: glad, for the first time in his life, that it was his birth­day.





