CHAPTER TEN


The Ma­raud­er’s Map



Madam Pom­frey in­sist­ed on keep­ing Har­ry in the hos­pi­tal wing for the rest of the week­end. He didn’t ar­gue or com­plain, but he wouldn’t let her throw away the shat­tered rem­nants of his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand. He knew he was be­ing stupid, knew that the Nim­bus was be­yond re­pair, but Har­ry couldn’t help it; he felt as though he’d lost one of his best friends.

He had a stream of vis­itors, all in­tent on cheer­ing him up. Ha­grid sent him a bunch of ear­wig­gy flow­ers that looked like yel­low cab­bages and Gin­ny Weasley, blush­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, turned up with a ‘get well’ card she had made her­self, which sang shril­ly un­less Har­ry kept it shut un­der his bowl of fruit. The Gryffind­or team vis­it­ed again on Sun­day morn­ing, this time ac­com­pa­nied by Wood, who told Har­ry, in a hol­low, dead sort of voice, that he didn’t blame him in the slight­est. Ron and Hermione on­ly left Har­ry’s bed­side at night. But noth­ing any­one said or did could make Har­ry feel any bet­ter, be­cause they on­ly knew half of what was trou­bling him.

He hadn’t told any­one about the Grim, not even Ron and Hermione, be­cause he knew Ron would pan­ic and Hermione would scoff. The fact re­mained, how­ev­er, that it had now ap­peared twice, and both ap­pear­ances had been fol­lowed by near-​fa­tal ac­ci­dents; the first time, he had near­ly been run over by the Knight Bus; the sec­ond, fall­en fifty feet from his broom­stick. Was the Grim go­ing to haunt him un­til he ac­tu­al­ly died? Was he go­ing to spend the rest of his life look­ing over his shoul­der for the beast?

And then there were the De­men­tors. Har­ry felt sick and hu­mil­iat­ed ev­ery time he thought of them. Ev­ery­one said the De­men­tors were hor­ri­ble, but no one else col­lapsed ev­ery time they went near one … no one else heard echoes in their head of their dy­ing par­ents.

For Har­ry knew who that scream­ing voice be­longed to now. He had heard her words, heard them over and over again dur­ing the night hours in the hos­pi­tal wing while he lay awake, star­ing at the strips of moon­light on the ceil­ing. When the De­men­tors ap­proached him, he heard the last mo­ments of his moth­er’s life, her at­tempts to pro­tect him, Har­ry, from Lord Volde­mort, and Volde­mort’s laugh­ter be­fore he mur­dered her … Har­ry dozed fit­ful­ly, sink­ing in­to dreams full of clam­my, rot­ted hands and pet­ri­fied plead­ing, jerk­ing awake on­ly to dwell again on the sound of his moth­er’s voice.

*

It was a re­lief to re­turn on Mon­day to the noise and bus­tle of the main school, where he was forced to think about oth­er things, even if he had to en­dure Dra­co Mal­foy’s taunt­ing. Mal­foy was al­most be­side him­self with glee at Gryffind­or’s de­feat. He had fi­nal­ly tak­en off his ban­dages, and cel­ebrat­ed hav­ing the full use of both arms again by do­ing spir­it­ed im­ita­tions of Har­ry falling off his broom. Mal­foy spent much of their next Po­tions class do­ing De­men­tor im­ita­tions across the dun­geon; Ron fi­nal­ly cracked, fling­ing a large, slip­pery crocodile heart at Mal­foy, which hit him in the face and caused Snape to take fifty points from Gryffind­or.

‘If Snape’s tak­ing De­fence Against the Dark Arts again, I’m go­ing off sick,’ said Ron, as they head­ed to­wards Lupin’s class­room af­ter lunch. ‘Check who’s in there, Hermione.’

Hermione peered around the class­room door.

‘It’s OK!’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin was back at work. It cer­tain­ly looked as though he had been ill. His old robes were hang­ing more loose­ly on him and there were dark shad­ows be­neath his eyes; nev­er­the­less, he smiled at the class as they took their seats, and they burst at once in­to an ex­plo­sion of com­plaints about Snape’s be­haviour while Lupin had been ill.

‘It’s not fair, he was on­ly fill­ing in, why should he set us home­work?’

‘We don’t know any­thing about were­wolves –’

‘– two rolls of parch­ment!’

‘Did you tell Pro­fes­sor Snape we haven’t cov­ered them yet?’ Lupin asked, frown­ing slight­ly.

The bab­ble broke out again.

‘Yes, but he said we were re­al­ly be­hind –’

‘– he wouldn’t lis­ten –’

‘– two rolls of parch­ment!’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin smiled at the look of in­dig­na­tion on ev­ery face.

‘Don’t wor­ry. I’ll speak to Pro­fes­sor Snape. You don’t have to do the es­say.’

‘Oh no,’ said Hermione, look­ing very dis­ap­point­ed. ‘I’ve al­ready fin­ished it!’

They had a very en­joy­able les­son. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had brought along a glass box con­tain­ing a Hinky­punk, a lit­tle one-​legged crea­ture who seemed as though he was made of wisps of smoke, rather frail and harm­less-​look­ing.

‘Lures trav­ellers in­to bogs,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, as they took notes. ‘You no­tice the lantern dan­gling from his hand? Hops ahead – peo­ple fol­low the light – then –’

The Hinky­punk made a hor­ri­ble squelch­ing noise against the glass.

When the bell rang, ev­ery­one gath­ered up their things and head­ed for the door, Har­ry amongst them, but –

‘Wait a mo­ment, Har­ry,’ Lupin called, ‘I’d like a word.’

Har­ry dou­bled back and watched Pro­fes­sor Lupin cov­er­ing the Hinky­punk’s box with a cloth.

‘I heard about the match,’ said Lupin, turn­ing back to his desk and start­ing to pile books in­to his brief­case, ‘and I’m sor­ry about your broom­stick. Is there any chance of fix­ing it?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry. ‘The tree smashed it to bits.’

Lupin sighed.

‘They plant­ed the Whomp­ing Wil­low the same year that I ar­rived at Hog­warts. Peo­ple used to play a game, try­ing to get near enough to touch the trunk. In the end, a boy called Dav­ey Gud­geon near­ly lost an eye, and we were for­bid­den to go near it. No broom­stick would have a chance.’

‘Did you hear about the De­men­tors, too?’ said Har­ry with dif­fi­cul­ty.

Lupin looked at him quick­ly.

‘Yes, I did. I don’t think any of us have seen Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore that an­gry. They have been grow­ing rest­less for some time … fu­ri­ous at his re­fusal to let them in­side the grounds … I sup­pose they were the rea­son you fell?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. He hes­itat­ed, and then the ques­tion he had to ask burst from him be­fore he could stop him­self. ‘Why? Why do they af­fect me like that? Am I just –?’

‘It has noth­ing to do with weak­ness,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin sharply, as though he had read Har­ry’s mind. ‘The De­men­tors af­fect you worse than the oth­ers be­cause there are hor­rors in your past that the oth­ers don’t have.’

A ray of win­try sun­light fell across the class­room, il­lu­mi­nat­ing Lupin’s grey hairs and the lines on his young face.

‘De­men­tors are among the foulest crea­tures that walk this earth. They in­fest the dark­est, filth­iest places, they glo­ry in de­cay and de­spair, they drain peace, hope and hap­pi­ness out of the air around them. Even Mug­gles feel their pres­ence, though they can’t see them. Get too near a De­men­tor and ev­ery good feel­ing, ev­ery hap­py mem­ory, will be sucked out of you. If it can, the De­men­tor will feed on you long enough to re­duce you to some­thing like it­self – soul­less and evil. You’ll be left with noth­ing but the worst ex­pe­ri­ences of your life. And the worst that has hap­pened to you, Har­ry, is enough to make any­one fall off their broom. You have noth­ing to feel ashamed of.’

‘When they get near me –’ Har­ry stared at Lupin’s desk, his throat tight, ‘I can hear Volde­mort mur­der­ing my mum.’

Lupin made a sud­den mo­tion with his arm as though he had made to grip Har­ry’s shoul­der, but thought bet­ter of it. There was a mo­ment’s si­lence; then –

‘Why did they have to come to the match?’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

‘They’re get­ting hun­gry,’ said Lupin cool­ly, shut­ting his brief­case with a snap. ‘Dum­ble­dore won’t let them in­to the school, so their sup­ply of hu­man prey has dried up … I don’t think they could re­sist the large crowd around the Quid­ditch pitch. All that ex­cite­ment … emo­tions run­ning high … it was their idea of a feast.’

‘Azk­aban must be ter­ri­ble,’ Har­ry mut­tered. Lupin nod­ded grim­ly.

‘The fortress is set on a tiny is­land, way out to sea, but they don’t need walls and wa­ter to keep the pris­on­ers in, not when they’re all trapped in­side their own heads, in­ca­pable of a sin­gle cheer­ful thought. Most of them go mad with­in weeks.’

‘But Sir­ius Black es­caped from them,’ Har­ry said slow­ly. ‘He got away …’

Lupin’s brief­case slipped from the desk; he had to stoop quick­ly to catch it.

‘Yes,’ he said, straight­en­ing up. ‘Black must have found a way to fight them. I wouldn’t have be­lieved it pos­si­ble … De­men­tors are sup­posed to drain a wiz­ard of his pow­ers if he is left with them too long …’

‘You made that De­men­tor on the train back off,’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly.

‘There are – cer­tain de­fences one can use,’ said Lupin. ‘But there was on­ly one De­men­tor on the train. The more there are, the more dif­fi­cult it be­comes to re­sist.’

‘What de­fences?’ said Har­ry at once. ‘Can you teach me?’

‘I don’t pre­tend to be an ex­pert at fight­ing De­men­tors, Har­ry – quite the con­trary …’

‘But if the De­men­tors come to an­oth­er Quid­ditch match, I need to be able to fight them –’

Lupin looked in­to Har­ry’s de­ter­mined face, hes­itat­ed, then said, ‘Well … all right. I’ll try and help. But it’ll have to wait un­til next term, I’m afraid. I have a lot to do be­fore the hol­idays. I chose a very in­con­ve­nient time to fall ill.’

*

What with the promise of An­ti-​De­men­tor lessons from Lupin, the thought that he might nev­er have to hear his moth­er’s death again, and the fact that Raven­claw flat­tened Huf­flepuff in their Quid­ditch match at the end of Novem­ber, Har­ry’s mood took a def­inite up­turn. Gryffind­or were not out of the run­ning af­ter all, al­though they could not af­ford to lose an­oth­er match. Wood be­came re­pos­sessed of his man­ic en­er­gy, and worked his team as hard as ev­er in the chilly haze of rain that per­sist­ed in­to De­cem­ber. Har­ry saw no hint of a De­men­tor with­in the grounds. Dum­ble­dore’s anger seemed to be keep­ing them at their sta­tions at the en­trances.

Two weeks be­fore the end of term, the sky light­ened sud­den­ly to a daz­zling, opa­line white and the mud­dy grounds were re­vealed one morn­ing cov­ered in glit­ter­ing frost. In­side the cas­tle, there was a buzz of Christ­mas in the air. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, the Charms teach­er, had al­ready dec­orat­ed his class­room with shim­mer­ing lights that turned out to be re­al, flut­ter­ing fairies. The stu­dents were all hap­pi­ly dis­cussing their plans for the hol­idays. Both Ron and Hermione had de­cid­ed to re­main at Hog­warts, and though Ron said it was be­cause he couldn’t stand two weeks with Per­cy, and Hermione in­sist­ed she need­ed to use the li­brary, Har­ry wasn’t fooled; they were do­ing it to keep him com­pa­ny, and he was very grate­ful.

To ev­ery­one’s de­light ex­cept Har­ry’s, there was to be an­oth­er Hogsmeade trip on the very last week­end of term.

‘We can do all our Christ­mas shop­ping there!’ said Hermione. ‘Mum and Dad would re­al­ly love those Tooth­floss­ing String­mints from Hon­ey­dukes!’

Re­signed to the fact that he would be the on­ly third-​year stay­ing be­hind again, Har­ry bor­rowed a copy of Which Broom­stick from Wood, and de­cid­ed to spend the day read­ing up on the dif­fer­ent makes. He had been rid­ing one of the school brooms at team prac­tice, an an­cient Shoot­ing Star, which was very slow and jerky; he def­inite­ly need­ed a new broom of his own.

On the Sat­ur­day morn­ing of the Hogsmeade trip, Har­ry bid good­bye to Ron and Hermione, who were wrapped in cloaks and scarves, then turned up the mar­ble stair­case alone, and head­ed back to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er. Snow had start­ed to fall out­side the win­dows, and the cas­tle was very still and qui­et.

‘Psst – Har­ry!’

He turned, halfway along the third-​floor cor­ri­dor, to see Fred and George peer­ing out at him from be­hind a stat­ue of a hump­backed, one-​eyed witch.

‘What are you do­ing?’ said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly. ‘How come you’re not go­ing to Hogsmeade?’

‘We’ve come to give you a bit of fes­tive cheer be­fore we go,’ said Fred, with a mys­te­ri­ous wink. ‘Come in here …’

He nod­ded to­wards an emp­ty class­room to the left of the one-​eyed stat­ue. Har­ry fol­lowed Fred and George in­side. George closed the door qui­et­ly and then turned, beam­ing, to look at Har­ry.

‘Ear­ly Christ­mas present for you, Har­ry,’ he said.

Fred pulled some­thing from in­side his cloak with a flour­ish and laid it on one of the desks. It was a large, square, very worn piece of parch­ment with noth­ing writ­ten on it. Har­ry, sus­pect­ing one of Fred and George’s jokes, stared at it.

‘What’s that sup­posed to be?’

‘This, Har­ry, is the se­cret of our suc­cess,’ said George, pat­ting the parch­ment fond­ly.

‘It’s a wrench, giv­ing it to you,’ said Fred, ‘but we de­cid­ed last night, your need’s greater than ours.’

‘Any­way, we know it off by heart,’ said George. ‘We be­queath it to you. We don’t re­al­ly need it any more.’

‘And what do I need with a bit of old parch­ment?’ said Har­ry.

‘A bit of old parch­ment!’ said Fred, clos­ing his eyes with a gri­mace as though Har­ry had mor­tal­ly of­fend­ed him. ‘Ex­plain, George.’

‘Well … when we were in our first year, Har­ry – young, care­free and in­no­cent –’

Har­ry snort­ed. He doubt­ed whether Fred and George had ev­er been in­no­cent.

‘– well, more in­no­cent than we are now – we got in­to a spot of both­er with Filch.’

‘We let off a Dung­bomb in the cor­ri­dor and it up­set him for some rea­son –’

‘So he hauled us off to his of­fice and start­ed threat­en­ing us with the usu­al –’

‘– de­ten­tion –’

‘– dis­em­bow­el­ment –’

‘– and we couldn’t help notic­ing a draw­er in one of his fil­ing cab­inets marked Con­fis­cat­ed and High­ly Dan­ger­ous.’

‘Don’t tell me –’ said Har­ry, start­ing to grin.

‘Well, what would you’ve done?’ said Fred. ‘George caused a di­ver­sion by drop­ping an­oth­er Dung­bomb, I whipped the draw­er open and grabbed – this.’

‘It’s not as bad as it sounds, you know,’ said George. ‘We don’t reck­on Filch ev­er found out how to work it. He prob­ably sus­pect­ed what it was, though, or he wouldn’t have con­fis­cat­ed it.’

‘And you know how to work it?’

‘Oh yes,’ said Fred, smirk­ing. ‘This lit­tle beau­ty’s taught us more than all the teach­ers in this school.’

‘You’re wind­ing me up,’ said Har­ry, look­ing at the ragged old bit of parch­ment.

‘Oh, are we?’ said George.

He took out his wand, touched the parch­ment light­ly and said, ‘I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good.’

And at once, thin ink lines be­gan to spread like a spi­der’s web from the point that George’s wand had touched. They joined each oth­er, they criss-​crossed, they fanned in­to ev­ery cor­ner of the parch­ment; then words be­gan to blos­som across the top, great, curly green words, that pro­claimed:

Messrs Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs Pur­vey­ors of Aids to Mag­ical Mis­chief-​Mak­ers

are proud to present

THE MA­RAUD­ER’S MAP

It was a map show­ing ev­ery de­tail of the Hog­warts cas­tle and grounds. But the tru­ly re­mark­able thing was the tiny ink dots mov­ing around it, each la­belled with a name in mi­nus­cule writ­ing. As­tound­ed, Har­ry bent over it. A la­belled dot in the top left cor­ner showed that Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was pac­ing his study; the care­tak­er’s cat, Mrs Nor­ris, was prowl­ing the sec­ond floor, and Peeves the poltergeist was cur­rent­ly bounc­ing around the tro­phy room. And as Har­ry’s eyes trav­elled up and down the fa­mil­iar cor­ri­dors, he no­ticed some­thing else.

This map showed a set of pas­sages he had nev­er en­tered. And many of them seemed to lead –

‘Right in­to Hogsmeade,’ said Fred, trac­ing one of them with his fin­ger. ‘There are sev­en in all. Now, Filch knows about these four –’ he point­ed them out, ‘– but we’re sure we’re the on­ly ones who know about these. Don’t both­er with the one be­hind the mir­ror on the fourth floor. We used it un­til last win­ter, but it’s caved in – com­plete­ly blocked. And we don’t reck­on any­one’s ev­er used this one, be­cause the Whomp­ing Wil­low’s plant­ed right over the en­trance. But this one here, this one leads right in­to the cel­lar of Hon­ey­dukes. We’ve used it loads of times. And as you might’ve no­ticed, the en­trance is right out­side this room, through that one-​eyed old crone’s hump.’

‘Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs,’ sighed George, pat­ting the head­ing of the map. ‘We owe them so much.’

‘No­ble men, work­ing tire­less­ly to help a new gen­er­ation of law­break­ers,’ said Fred solemn­ly.

‘Right,’ said George briskly, ‘don’t for­get to wipe it af­ter you’ve used it –’

‘– or any­one can read it,’ Fred said warn­ing­ly.

‘Just tap it again and say, ‘Mis­chief man­aged!’ And it’ll go blank.’

‘So, young Har­ry,’ said Fred, in an un­can­ny im­per­son­ation of Per­cy, ‘mind you be­have your­self.’

‘See you in Hon­ey­dukes,’ said George, wink­ing.

They left the room, both smirk­ing in a sat­is­fied sort of way.

Har­ry stood there, gaz­ing at the mirac­ulous map. He watched the tiny ink Mrs Nor­ris turn left and pause to sniff at some­thing on the floor. If Filch re­al­ly didn’t know … he wouldn’t have to pass the De­men­tors at all …

But even as he stood there, flood­ed with ex­cite­ment, some­thing Har­ry had once heard Mr Weasley say came float­ing out of his mem­ory.

Nev­er trust any­thing that can think for it­self, if you can’t see where it keeps its brain.

This map was one of those dan­ger­ous mag­ical ob­jects Mr Weasley had been warn­ing against … Aids for Mag­ical Mis­chief-​Mak­ers … but then, Har­ry rea­soned, he on­ly want­ed to use it to get in­to Hogsmeade, it wasn’t as though he want­ed to steal any­thing or at­tack any­one … and Fred and George had been us­ing it for years with­out any­thing hor­ri­ble hap­pen­ing …

Har­ry traced the se­cret pas­sage to Hon­ey­dukes with his fin­ger.

Then, quite sud­den­ly, as though fol­low­ing or­ders, he rolled up the map, stuffed it in­side his robes, and hur­ried to the door of the class­room. He opened it a cou­ple of inch­es. There was no one out­side. Very care­ful­ly, he edged out of the room and slipped be­hind the stat­ue of the one-​eyed witch.

What did he have to do? He pulled out the map again and saw, to his as­ton­ish­ment, that a new ink fig­ure had ap­peared up­on it, la­belled ‘Har­ry Pot­ter’. This fig­ure was stand­ing ex­act­ly where the re­al Har­ry was stand­ing, about halfway down the third-​floor cor­ri­dor. Har­ry watched care­ful­ly. His lit­tle ink self ap­peared to be tap­ping the witch with his minute wand. Har­ry quick­ly took out his re­al wand and tapped the stat­ue. Noth­ing hap­pened. He looked back at the map. The tini­est speech bub­ble had ap­peared next to his fig­ure. The word in­side said ‘Dis­sendi­um’.

‘Dis­sendi­um!’ Har­ry whis­pered, tap­ping the stone witch again.

At once, the stat­ue’s hump opened wide enough to ad­mit a fair­ly thin per­son. Har­ry glanced quick­ly up and down the cor­ri­dor, then tucked the map away again, hoist­ed him­self in­to the hole head­first, and pushed him­self for­wards.

He slid a con­sid­er­able way down what felt like a stone slide, then land­ed on cold, damp earth. He stood up, look­ing around. It was pitch dark. He held up his wand, mut­tered, ‘Lu­mos!’ and saw that he was in a very nar­row, low, earthy pas­sage­way. He raised the map, tapped it with the tip of his wand and mut­tered, ‘Mis­chief man­aged!’ The map went blank at once. He fold­ed it care­ful­ly, tucked it in­side his robes, then, heart beat­ing fast, both ex­cit­ed and ap­pre­hen­sive, he set off.

The pas­sage twist­ed and turned, more like the bur­row of a gi­ant rab­bit than any­thing else. Har­ry hur­ried along it, stum­bling now and then on the un­even floor, hold­ing his wand out in front of him.

It took ages, but Har­ry had the thought of Hon­ey­dukes to sus­tain him. Af­ter what felt like an hour, the pas­sage be­gan to rise. Pant­ing, Har­ry sped up, his face hot, his feet very cold.

Ten min­utes lat­er, he came to the foot of some worn, stone steps which rose out of sight above him. Care­ful not to make any noise, Har­ry be­gan to climb. A hun­dred steps, two hun­dred steps, he lost count as he climbed, watch­ing his feet … then, with­out warn­ing, his head hit some­thing hard.

It seemed to be a trap­door. Har­ry stood there, mas­sag­ing the top of his head, lis­ten­ing. He couldn’t hear any sounds above him. Very slow­ly, he pushed the trap­door open and peered over the edge.

He was in a cel­lar which was full of wood­en crates and box­es. Har­ry climbed out of the trap­door and re­placed it – it blend­ed so per­fect­ly with the dusty floor that it was im­pos­si­ble to tell it was there. Har­ry crept slow­ly to­wards the wood­en stair­case that led up­stairs. Now he could def­inite­ly hear voic­es, not to men­tion the tin­kle of a bell and the open­ing and shut­ting of a door.

Won­der­ing what he ought to do, he sud­den­ly heard a door open much clos­er at hand; some­body was about to come down­stairs.

‘And get an­oth­er box of Jel­ly Slugs, dear, they’ve near­ly cleaned us out –’ said a wom­an’s voice.

A pair of feet was com­ing down the stair­case. Har­ry leapt be­hind an enor­mous crate and wait­ed for the foot­steps to pass. He heard the man shift­ing box­es against the wall op­po­site. He might not get an­oth­er chance –

Quick­ly and silent­ly, Har­ry dodged out from his hid­ing place and climbed the stairs; look­ing back, he saw an enor­mous back­side and a shiny bald head buried in a box. Har­ry reached the door at the top of the stairs, slipped through it, and found him­self be­hind the counter of Hon­ey­dukes – he ducked, crept side­ways and then straight­ened up.

Hon­ey­dukes was so crowd­ed with Hog­warts stu­dents that no one looked twice at Har­ry. He edged amongst them, look­ing around, and sup­pressed a laugh as he imag­ined the look that would spread over Dud­ley’s pig­gy face if he could see where Har­ry was now.

There were shelves up­on shelves of the most suc­cu­lent-​look­ing sweets imag­in­able. Creamy chunks of nougat, shim­mer­ing pink squares of co­conut ice, fat, hon­ey-​coloured tof­fees; hun­dreds of dif­fer­ent kinds of choco­late in neat rows; there was a large bar­rel of Ev­ery Flavour Beans, and an­oth­er of Fizzing Whizzbees, the lev­itat­ing sher­bert balls that Ron had men­tioned; along yet an­oth­er wall were ‘Spe­cial Ef­fects’ sweets: Droobles Best Blow­ing Gum (which filled a room with blue­bell-​coloured bub­bles that re­fused to pop for days), the strange, splin­tery Tooth­floss­ing String­mints, tiny black Pep­per Imps (‘breathe fire for your friends!’), Ice Mice (‘hear your teeth chat­ter and squeak!’), pep­per­mint creams shaped like toads (‘hop re­al­is­ti­cal­ly in the stom­ach!’), frag­ile sug­ar-​spun quills and ex­plod­ing bon­bons.

Har­ry squeezed him­self through a crowd of sixth-​years and saw a sign hang­ing in the fur­thest cor­ner of the shop (‘Un­usu­al Tastes’). Ron and Hermione were stand­ing un­der­neath it, ex­am­in­ing a tray of blood-​flavoured lol­lipops. Har­ry sneaked up be­hind them.

‘Urgh, no, Har­ry won’t want one of those, they’re for vam­pires, I ex­pect,’ Hermione was say­ing.

‘How about these?’ said Ron, shov­ing a jar of Cock­roach Clus­ter un­der Hermione’s nose.

‘Def­inite­ly not,’ said Har­ry.

Ron near­ly dropped the jar.

‘Har­ry!’ squealed Hermione. ‘What are you do­ing here? How – how did you –?’

‘Wow!’ said Ron, look­ing very im­pressed. ‘You’ve learned to Ap­pa­rate!’

‘’Course I haven’t,’ said Har­ry. He dropped his voice so that none of the sixth-​years could hear him and told them all about the Ma­raud­er’s Map.

‘How come Fred and George nev­er gave it to me!’ said Ron, out­raged. ‘I’m their broth­er!’

‘But Har­ry isn’t go­ing to keep it!’ said Hermione, as though the idea was lu­di­crous. ‘He’s go­ing to hand it in to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, aren’t you, Har­ry?’

‘No, I’m not!’ said Har­ry.

‘Are you mad?’ said Ron, gog­gling at Hermione. ‘Hand in some­thing that good?’

‘If I hand it in, I’ll have to say where I got it! Filch would know Fred and George nicked it!’

‘But what about Sir­ius Black?’ Hermione hissed. ‘He could be us­ing one of the pas­sages on that map to get in­to the cas­tle! The teach­ers have got to know!’

‘He can’t be get­ting in through a pas­sage,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘There are sev­en se­cret tun­nels on the map, right? Fred and George reck­on Filch al­ready knows about four of them. And the oth­er three – one of them’s caved in, so no one can get through it. One of them’s got the Whomp­ing Wil­low plant­ed over the en­trance, so you can’t get out of it. And the one I just came through – well – it’s re­al­ly hard to see the en­trance to it down in the cel­lar – so un­less he knew it was there –’

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. What if Black did know the pas­sage was there? Ron, how­ev­er, cleared his throat sig­nif­icant­ly, and point­ed to a no­tice past­ed on the in­side of the sweet­shop door.



BY OR­DER OF THE MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC

Cus­tomers are re­mind­ed that un­til fur­ther no­tice, De­men­tors will be pa­trolling the streets of Hogsmeade ev­ery night af­ter sun­down. This mea­sure has been put in place for the safe­ty of Hogsmeade res­idents and will be lift­ed up­on the re­cap­ture of Sir­ius Black. It is there­fore ad­vis­able that you com­plete your shop­ping well be­fore night­fall.

Mer­ry Christ­mas!



‘See?’ said Ron qui­et­ly. ‘I’d like to see Black try and break in­to Hon­ey­dukes with De­men­tors swarm­ing all over the vil­lage. Any­way, Hermione, the Hon­ey­dukes own­ers would hear a break in, wouldn’t they? They live over the shop!’

‘Yes, but – but –’ Hermione seemed to be strug­gling to find an­oth­er prob­lem. ‘Look, Har­ry still shouldn’t be com­ing in­to Hogsmeade, he hasn’t got a signed form! If any­one finds out, he’ll be in so much trou­ble! And it’s not night­fall yet – what if Sir­ius Black turns up to­day? Now?’

‘He’d have a job spot­ting Har­ry in this,’ said Ron, nod­ding through the mul­lioned win­dows at the thick, swirling snow.

‘Come on, Hermione, it’s Christ­mas, Har­ry de­serves a break.’

Hermione bit her lip, look­ing ex­treme­ly wor­ried.

‘Are you go­ing to re­port me?’ Har­ry asked her, grin­ning.

‘Oh – of course not – but hon­est­ly, Har­ry –’

‘Seen the Fizzing Whizzbees, Har­ry?’ said Ron, grab­bing him and lead­ing him over to their bar­rel. ‘And the Jel­ly Slugs? And the Acid Pops? Fred gave me one of those when I was sev­en – it burnt a hole right through my tongue. I re­mem­ber Mum wal­lop­ing him with her broom­stick.’ Ron stared brood­ing­ly in­to the Acid Pop box. ‘Reck­on Fred’d take a bit of Cock­roach Clus­ter if I told him they were peanuts?’

When Ron and Hermione had paid for all their sweets, the three of them left Hon­ey­dukes for the bliz­zard out­side.

Hogsmeade looked like a Christ­mas card; the lit­tle thatched cot­tages and shops were all cov­ered in a lay­er of crisp snow; there were hol­ly wreaths on the doors and strings of en­chant­ed can­dles hang­ing in the trees.

Har­ry shiv­ered; un­like the oth­er two, he didn’t have his cloak. They head­ed up the street, heads bowed against the wind, Ron and Hermione shout­ing through their scarves.

‘That’s the Post Of­fice –’

‘Zonko’s is up there –’

‘We could go up to the Shriek­ing Shack –’

‘Tell you what,’ said Ron, his teeth chat­ter­ing, ‘shall we go for a But­ter­beer in the Three Broom­sticks?’

Har­ry was more than will­ing; the wind was fierce and his hands were freez­ing, so they crossed the road, and in a few min­utes were en­ter­ing the tiny inn.

It was ex­treme­ly crowd­ed, noisy, warm and smoky. A curvy sort of wom­an with a pret­ty face was serv­ing a bunch of row­dy war­locks up at the bar.

‘That’s Madam Ros­mer­ta,’ said Ron. ‘I’ll get the drinks, shall I?’ he added, go­ing slight­ly red.

Har­ry and Hermione made their way to the back of the room, where there was a small, va­cant ta­ble be­tween the win­dow and a hand­some Christ­mas tree which stood next to the fire­place. Ron came back five min­utes lat­er, car­ry­ing three foam­ing tankards of hot But­ter­beer.

‘Hap­py Christ­mas!’ he said hap­pi­ly, rais­ing his tankard.

Har­ry drank deeply. It was the most de­li­cious thing he’d ev­er tast­ed and seemed to heat ev­ery bit of him from the in­side.

A sud­den breeze ruf­fled his hair. The door of the Three Broom­sticks had opened again. Har­ry looked over the rim of his tankard and choked.

Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Flitwick had just en­tered the pub in a flur­ry of snowflakes, short­ly fol­lowed by Ha­grid, who was deep in con­ver­sa­tion with a port­ly man in a lime-​green bowler hat and a pin­striped cloak: Cor­nelius Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic.

In an in­stant, Ron and Hermione had both placed hands on the top of Har­ry’s head and forced him off his stool and un­der the ta­ble. Drip­ping with But­ter­beer and crouch­ing out of sight, Har­ry clutched his emp­ty tankard and watched the teach­ers’ and Fudge’s feet move to­wards the bar, pause, then turn and walk right to­wards him.

Some­where above him, Hermione whis­pered, ‘Mo­bil­iar­bus!’

The Christ­mas tree be­side their ta­ble rose a few inch­es off the ground, drift­ed side­ways and land­ed with a soft thump right in front of their ta­ble, hid­ing them from view. Star­ing through the dense low­er branch­es, Har­ry saw four sets of chair legs move back from the ta­ble right be­side theirs, then heard the grunts and sighs of the teach­ers and Min­is­ter as they sat down.

Next he saw an­oth­er pair of feet, wear­ing spark­ly turquoise high heels, and heard a wom­an’s voice.

‘A small Gilly­wa­ter –’

‘Mine,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice.

‘Four pints of mulled mead –’

‘Ta, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Ha­grid.

‘A cher­ry syrup and so­da with ice and um­brel­la –’

‘Mmm!’ said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, smack­ing his lips.

‘So you’ll be the red­cur­rant rum, Min­is­ter.’

‘Thank you, Ros­mer­ta, m’dear,’ said Fudge’s voice. ‘Love­ly to see you again, I must say. Have one your­self, won’t you? Come and join us …’

‘Well, thank you very much, Min­is­ter.’

Har­ry watched the glit­ter­ing heels march away and back again. His heart was pound­ing un­com­fort­ably in his throat. Why hadn’t it oc­curred to him that this was the last week­end of term for the teach­ers, too? And how long were they go­ing to sit there? He need­ed time to sneak back in­to Hon­ey­dukes if he want­ed to re­turn to school tonight … Hermione’s leg gave a ner­vous twitch next to him.

‘So, what brings you to this neck of the woods, Min­is­ter?’ came Madam Ros­mer­ta’s voice.

Har­ry saw the low­er part of Fudge’s thick body twist in his chair as though he was check­ing for eaves­drop­pers. Then he said in a qui­et voice, ‘What else, m’dear, but Sir­ius Black? I dare­say you heard what hap­pened up at the school at Hal­lowe’en?’

‘I did hear a ru­mour,’ ad­mit­ted Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Did you tell the whole pub, Ha­grid?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ex­as­per­at­ed­ly.

‘Do you think Black’s still in the area, Min­is­ter?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘I’m sure of it,’ said Fudge short­ly.

‘You know that the De­men­tors have searched my pub twice?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, a slight edge to her voice. ‘Scared all my cus­tomers away … it’s very bad for busi­ness, Min­is­ter.’

‘Ros­mer­ta, m’dear, I don’t like them any more than you do,’ said Fudge un­com­fort­ably. ‘Nec­es­sary pre­cau­tion … un­for­tu­nate, but there you are … I’ve just met some of them. They’re in a fury against Dum­ble­dore – he won’t let them in­side the cas­tle grounds.’

‘I should think not,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply. ‘How are we sup­posed to teach with those hor­rors float­ing around?’

‘Hear, hear!’ squeaked tiny Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, whose feet were dan­gling a foot from the ground.

‘All the same,’ de­murred Fudge, ‘they are here to pro­tect you all from some­thing much worse … we all know what Black’s ca­pa­ble of …’

‘Do you know, I still have trou­ble be­liev­ing it,’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta thought­ful­ly. ‘Of all the peo­ple to go over to the Dark side, Sir­ius Black was the last I’d have thought … I mean, I re­mem­ber him when he was a boy at Hog­warts. If you’d told me then what he was go­ing to be­come, I’d have said you’d had too much mead.’

‘You don’t know the half of it, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Fudge gruffly. ‘The worst he did isn’t wide­ly known.’

‘The worst?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, her voice alive with cu­rios­ity. ‘Worse than mur­der­ing all those poor peo­ple, you mean?’

‘I cer­tain­ly do,’ said Fudge.

‘I can’t be­lieve that. What could pos­si­bly be worse?’

‘You say you re­mem­ber him at Hog­warts, Ros­mer­ta,’ mur­mured Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Do you re­mem­ber who his best friend was?’

‘Nat­ural­ly,’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, with a small laugh. ‘Nev­er saw one with­out the oth­er, did you? The num­ber of times I had them in here – ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the dou­ble act, Sir­ius Black and James Pot­ter!’

Har­ry dropped his tankard with a loud clunk. Ron kicked him.

‘Pre­cise­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Black and Pot­ter. Ringlead­ers of their lit­tle gang. Both very bright, of course – ex­cep­tion­al­ly bright, in fact – but I don’t think we’ve ev­er had such a pair of trou­ble­mak­ers –’

‘I dun­no,’ chuck­led Ha­grid. ‘Fred and George Weasley could give ’em a run fer their mon­ey’

‘You’d have thought Black and Pot­ter were broth­ers!’ chimed in Pro­fes­sor Flitwick. ‘In­sep­ara­ble!’

‘Of course they were,’ said Fudge. ‘Pot­ter trust­ed Black be­yond all his oth­er friends. Noth­ing changed when they left school. Black was best man when James mar­ried Lily. Then they named him god­fa­ther to Har­ry. Har­ry has no idea, of course. You can imag­ine how the idea would tor­ment him.’

‘Be­cause Black turned out to be in league with You-​Know-​Who?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Worse even than that, m’dear …’ Fudge dropped his voice and pro­ceed­ed in a sort of low rum­ble. ‘Not many peo­ple are aware that the Pot­ters knew You-​Know-​Who was af­ter them. Dum­ble­dore, who was of course work­ing tire­less­ly against You-​Know-​Who, had a num­ber of use­ful spies. One of them tipped him off, and he alert­ed James and Lily at once. He ad­vised them to go in­to hid­ing. Well, of course, You-​Know-​Who wasn’t an easy per­son to hide from. Dum­ble­dore told them that their best chance was the Fi­delius Charm.’

‘How does that work?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, breath­less with in­ter­est. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick cleared his throat.

‘An im­mense­ly com­plex spell,’ he said squeak­ily, ‘in­volv­ing the mag­ical con­ceal­ment of a se­cret in­side a sin­gle, liv­ing soul. The in­for­ma­tion is hid­den in­side the cho­sen per­son, or Se­cret-​Keep­er, and is hence­forth im­pos­si­ble to find – un­less, of course, the Se­cret-​Keep­er choos­es to di­vulge it. As long as the Se­cret-​Keep­er re­fused to speak, You-​Know-​Who could search the vil­lage where Lily and James were stay­ing for years and nev­er find them, not even if he had his nose pressed against their sit­ting-​room win­dow!’

‘So Black was the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Nat­ural­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘James Pot­ter told Dum­ble­dore that Black would die rather than tell where they were, that Black was plan­ning to go in­to hid­ing him­self … and yet, Dum­ble­dore re­mained wor­ried. I re­mem­ber him of­fer­ing to be the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er him­self.’

‘He sus­pect­ed Black?’ gasped Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘He was sure that some­body close to the Pot­ters had been keep­ing You-​Know-​Who in­formed of their move­ments,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dark­ly. ‘In­deed, he had sus­pect­ed for some time that some­one on our side had turned traitor and was pass­ing a lot of in­for­ma­tion to You-​Know-​Who.’

‘But James Pot­ter in­sist­ed on us­ing Black?’

‘He did,’ said Fudge heav­ily. ‘And then, bare­ly a week af­ter the Fi­delius Charm had been per­formed –’

‘Black be­trayed them?’ breathed Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘He did in­deed. Black was tired of his dou­ble-​agent role, he was ready to de­clare his sup­port open­ly for You-​Know-​Who, and he seems to have planned this for the mo­ment of the Pot­ters’ death. But, as we all know, You-​Know-​Who met his down­fall in lit­tle Har­ry Pot­ter. Pow­ers gone, hor­ri­bly weak­ened, he fled. And this left Black in a very nasty po­si­tion in­deed. His Mas­ter had fall­en at the very mo­ment when he, Black, had shown his true colours as a traitor. He had no choice but to run for it –’

‘Filthy, stinkin’ turn­coat!’ Ha­grid said, so loud­ly that half the bar went qui­et.

‘Shh!’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

‘I met him!’ growled Ha­grid. ‘I mus­ta bin the last ter see him be­fore he killed all them peo­ple! It was me what res­cued Har­ry from Lily an’ James’ house af­ter they was killed! Jus’ got him out­ta the ru­ins, poor lit­tle thing, with a great slash across his fore­head, an’ his par­ents dead … an’ Sir­ius Black turns up, on that fly­in’ mo­tor­bike he used ter ride. Nev­er oc­curred ter me what he was doin’ there. I didn’ know he’d bin Lily an’ James’ Se­cret-​Keep­er. Thought he’d jus’ heard the news o’ You-​Know-​Who’s at­tack an’ come ter see what he could do. White an’ shakin’, he was. An’ yeh know what I did? I COM­FORT­ED THE MUR­DERIN’ TRAITOR!’ Ha­grid roared.

‘Ha­grid, please!’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Keep your voice down!’

‘How was I ter know he wasn’ up­set abou’ Lily an’ James? It was You-​Know-​Who he cared abou’! An’ then he says, ‘Give Har­ry ter me, Ha­grid, I’m his god­fa­ther, I’ll look af­ter him –’ Ha! But I’d had me or­ders from Dum­ble­dore, an’ I told Black no, Dum­ble­dore said Har­ry was ter go ter his aunt an’ un­cle’s. Black ar­gued, but in the end he gave in. Told me ter take his mo­tor­bike ter get Har­ry there. ‘I won’ need it any more,’ he says.

‘I shoul­da known there was some­thin’ fishy goin’ on then. He loved that mo­tor­bike, what was he givin’ it ter me for? Why wouldn’ he need it any more? Fact was, it was too easy ter trace. Dum­ble­dore knew he’d bin the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er. Black knew he was goin’ ter have ter run fer it that night, knew it was a mat­ter o’ hours be­fore the Min­istry was af­ter him.

‘But what if I’d giv­en Har­ry to him, eh? I bet he’d’ve pitched him off the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes’ friend’s son! But when a wiz­ard goes over ter the dark side, there’s noth­in’ and no one that mat­ters to ’em any more …’

A long si­lence fol­lowed Ha­grid’s sto­ry. Then Madam Ros­mer­ta said with some sat­is­fac­tion, ‘But he didn’t man­age to dis­ap­pear, did he? The Min­istry of Mag­ic caught up with him next day!’

‘Alas, if on­ly we had,’ said Fudge bit­ter­ly. ‘It was not we who found him. It was lit­tle Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew – an­oth­er of the Pot­ters’ friends. Mad­dened by grief, no doubt, and know­ing that Black had been the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er, he went af­ter Black him­self.’

‘Pet­ti­grew … that fat lit­tle boy who was al­ways tag­ging around af­ter them at Hog­warts?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Hero-​wor­shipped Black and Pot­ter,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Nev­er quite in their league, tal­ent-​wise. I was of­ten rather sharp with him. You can imag­ine how I – how I re­gret that now …’ She sound­ed as though she had a sud­den head cold.

‘There, now, Min­er­va,’ said Fudge kind­ly, ‘Pet­ti­grew died a hero’s death. Eye-​wit­ness­es – Mug­gles, of course, we wiped their mem­ories lat­er – told us how Pet­ti­grew cor­nered Black. They say he was sob­bing. ‘Lily and James, Sir­ius! How could you!’ And then he went for his wand. Well, of course, Black was quick­er. Blew Pet­ti­grew to smithereens …’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall blew her nose and said thick­ly, ‘Stupid boy … fool­ish boy … he was al­ways hope­less at du­elling … should have left it to the Min­istry …’

‘I tell yeh, if I’d got ter Black be­fore lit­tle Pet­ti­grew did, I wouldn’t’ve messed around with wands – I’d’ve ripped him limb – from – limb,’ Ha­grid growled.

‘You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about, Ha­grid,’ said Fudge sharply. ‘No­body but trained Hit Wiz­ards from the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad would have stood a chance against Black once he was cor­nered. I was Ju­nior Min­is­ter in the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Catas­tro­phes at the time, and I was one of the first on the scene af­ter Black mur­dered all those peo­ple. I – I will nev­er for­get it. I still dream about it some­times. A crater in the mid­dle of the street, so deep it had cracked the sew­er be­low. Bod­ies ev­ery­where. Mug­gles scream­ing. And Black stand­ing there laugh­ing, with what was left of Pet­ti­grew in front of him … a heap of blood-​stained robes and a few – a few frag­ments –’

Fudge’s voice stopped abrupt­ly. There was the sound of five noses be­ing blown.

‘Well, there you have it, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Fudge thick­ly. ‘Black was tak­en away by twen­ty mem­bers of the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Pa­trol and Pet­ti­grew re­ceived the Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, which I think was some com­fort to his poor moth­er. Black’s been in Azk­aban ev­er since.’

Madam Ros­mer­ta let out a long sigh.

‘Is it true he’s mad, Min­is­ter?’

‘I wish I could say that he was,’ said Fudge slow­ly. ‘I cer­tain­ly be­lieve his mas­ter’s de­feat un­hinged him for a while. The mur­der of Pet­ti­grew and all those Mug­gles was the ac­tion of a cor­nered and des­per­ate man – cru­el … point­less. Yet I met Black on my last in­spec­tion of Azk­aban. You know, most of the pris­on­ers in there sit mut­ter­ing to them­selves in the dark, there’s no sense in them … but I was shocked at how nor­mal Black seemed. He spoke quite ra­tio­nal­ly to me. It was un­nerv­ing. You’d have thought he was mere­ly bored – asked if I’d fin­ished with my news­pa­per, cool as you please, said he missed do­ing the cross­word. Yes, I was as­tound­ed at how lit­tle ef­fect the De­men­tors seemed to be hav­ing on him – and he was one of the most heav­ily guard­ed in the place, you know. De­men­tors out­side his door, day and night.’

‘But what do you think he’s bro­ken out to do?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta. ‘Good gra­cious, Min­is­ter, he isn’t try­ing to re­join You-​Know-​Who, is he?’

‘I dare­say that is his – er – even­tu­al plan,’ said Fudge eva­sive­ly. ‘But we hope to catch Black long be­fore that. I must say, You-​Know-​Who alone and friend­less is one thing … but give him back his most de­vot­ed ser­vant, and I shud­der to think how quick­ly he’ll rise again …’

There was a small chink of glass on wood. Some­one had set down their glass.

‘You know, Cor­nelius, if you’re din­ing with the Head­mas­ter, we’d bet­ter head back up to the cas­tle,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

One by one, the pairs of feet in front of Har­ry took the weight of their own­ers once more; hems of cloaks swung in­to sight and Madam Ros­mer­ta’s glit­ter­ing heels dis­ap­peared be­hind the bar. The door of the Three Broom­sticks opened again, there was an­oth­er flur­ry of snow, and the teach­ers dis­ap­peared.

‘Har­ry?’

Ron and Hermione’s faces ap­peared un­der the ta­ble. They were both star­ing at him, lost for words.





