CHAPTER THIRTEEN


Gryffind­or ver­sus Raven­claw



It looked like the end of Ron and Hermione’s friend­ship. Each was so an­gry with the oth­er that Har­ry couldn’t see how they’d ev­er make it up.

Ron was en­raged that Hermione had nev­er tak­en Crook­shanks’s at­tempts to eat Scab­bers se­ri­ous­ly, hadn’t both­ered to keep a close enough watch on him and was still try­ing to pre­tend that Crook­shanks was in­no­cent by sug­gest­ing Ron look for Scab­bers un­der all the boys’ beds. Hermione, mean­while, main­tained fierce­ly that Ron had no proof that Crook­shanks had eat­en Scab­bers, that the gin­ger hairs might have been there since Christ­mas, and that Ron had been prej­udiced against her cat ev­er since Crook­shanks had land­ed on Ron’s head in the Mag­ical Menagerie.

Per­son­al­ly, Har­ry was sure that Crook­shanks had eat­en Scab­bers, and when he tried to point out to Hermione that the ev­idence all point­ed that way, she lost her tem­per with Har­ry, too.

‘OK, side with Ron, I knew you would!’ she said shril­ly. ‘First the Fire­bolt, now Scab­bers, ev­ery­thing’s my fault, isn’t it! Just leave me alone, Har­ry, I’ve got a lot of work to do!’

Ron had tak­en the loss of his rat very hard in­deed.

‘Come on, Ron, you were al­ways say­ing how bor­ing Scab­bers was,’ said Fred brac­ing­ly. ‘And he’s been off colour for ages, he was wast­ing away. It was prob­ably bet­ter for him to snuff it quick­ly. One swal­low – he prob­ably didn’t feel a thing.’

‘Fred!’ said Gin­ny in­dig­nant­ly.

‘All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it your­self,’ said George.

‘He bit Goyle for us once!’ Ron said mis­er­ably. ‘Re­mem­ber, Har­ry?’

‘Yeah, that’s true,’ said Har­ry.

‘His finest hour,’ said Fred, un­able to keep a straight face. ‘Let the scar on Goyle’s fin­ger stand as a last­ing trib­ute to his mem­ory. Oh, come on, Ron, get your­self down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat. What’s the point of moan­ing?’

In a last-​ditch at­tempt to cheer Ron up, Har­ry per­suad­ed him to come along to the Gryffind­or team’s fi­nal prac­tice be­fore the Raven­claw match, so that he could have a go on the Fire­bolt af­ter they’d fin­ished. This did seem to take Ron’s mind off Scab­bers for a mo­ment (‘Bril­liant! Can I try and shoot a few goals on it?’) so they set off for the Quid­ditch pitch to­geth­er.

Madam Hooch, who was still over­see­ing Gryffind­or prac­tices to keep an eye on Har­ry was just as im­pressed with the Fire­bolt as ev­ery­one else had been. She took it in her hands be­fore take-​off and gave them the ben­efit of her pro­fes­sion­al opin­ion.

‘Look at the bal­ance on it! If the Nim­bus se­ries has a fault, it’s a slight list to the tail-​end – you of­ten find they de­vel­op a drag af­ter a few years. They’ve up­dat­ed the han­dle, too, a bit slim­mer than the Clean­sweeps, re­minds me of the old Sil­ver Ar­rows – a pity they’ve stopped mak­ing them, I learned to fly on one, and a very fine old broom it was too …’

She con­tin­ued in this vein for some time, un­til Wood said, ‘Er – Madam Hooch? Is it OK if Har­ry has the Fire­bolt back? On­ly we need to prac­tise …’

‘Oh – right – here you are, then, Pot­ter,’ said Madam Hooch. ‘I’ll sit over here with Weasley …’

She and Ron left the pitch to sit in the sta­di­um, and the Gryffind­or team gath­ered around Wood for his fi­nal in­struc­tions for to­mor­row’s match.

‘Har­ry, I’ve just found out who Raven­claw are play­ing as Seek­er. It’s Cho Chang. She’s a fourth-​year, and she’s pret­ty good … I re­al­ly hoped she wouldn’t be fit, she’s had some prob­lems with in­juries …’ Wood scowled his dis­plea­sure that Cho Chang had made a full re­cov­ery, then said, ‘On the oth­er hand, she rides a Comet Two Six­ty, which is go­ing to look like a joke next to the Fire­bolt.’ He gave Har­ry’s broom a look of fer­vent ad­mi­ra­tion, then said, ‘OK, ev­ery­one, let’s go –’

And at long last, Har­ry mount­ed his Fire­bolt, and kicked off from the ground.

It was bet­ter than he’d ev­er dreamed. The Fire­bolt turned with the light­est touch; it seemed to obey his thoughts rather than his grip. It sped across the pitch at such speed that the sta­di­um turned in­to a green and grey blur; Har­ry turned it so sharply that Ali­cia Spin­net screamed, then he went in­to a per­fect­ly con­trolled dive, brush­ing the grassy pitch with his toes be­fore ris­ing thir­ty, forty, fifty feet in­to the air again –

‘Har­ry, I’m let­ting the Snitch out!’ Wood called.

Har­ry turned and raced a Bludger to­wards the goal­posts; he out­stripped it eas­ily, saw the Snitch dart out from be­hind Wood and with­in ten sec­onds had caught it tight­ly in his hand.

The team cheered mad­ly. Har­ry let the Snitch go again, gave it a minute’s head start, then tore af­ter it, weav­ing in and out of the oth­ers; he spot­ted it lurk­ing near Katie Bell’s knee, looped her eas­ily, and caught it again.

It was the best prac­tice ev­er; the team, in­spired by the pres­ence of the Fire­bolt in their midst, per­formed their best moves fault­less­ly, and by the time they hit the ground again, Wood didn’t have a sin­gle crit­icism to make, which, as George Weasley point­ed out, was a first.

‘I can’t see what’s go­ing to stop us to­mor­row!’ said Wood. ‘Not un­less – Har­ry, you’ve sort­ed your De­men­tor prob­lem, haven’t you?’

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, think­ing of his fee­ble Pa­tronus and wish­ing it was stronger.

‘The De­men­tors won’t turn up again, Oliv­er, Dum­ble­dore’d do his nut,’ said Fred con­fi­dent­ly.

‘Well, let’s hope not,’ said Wood. ‘Any­way – good work, ev­ery­one. Let’s get back to the Tow­er – turn in ear­ly …’

‘I’m stay­ing out for a bit, Ron wants a go on the Fire­bolt,’ Har­ry told Wood, and while the rest of the team head­ed off to the chang­ing rooms, Har­ry strode over to Ron, who vault­ed the bar­ri­er to the stands and came to meet him. Madam Hooch had fall­en asleep in her seat.

‘Here you go,’ said Har­ry, hand­ing Ron the Fire­bolt.

Ron, an ex­pres­sion of ec­sta­sy on his face, mount­ed the broom and zoomed off in­to the gath­er­ing dark­ness while Har­ry walked around the edge of the pitch, watch­ing him. Night had fall­en be­fore Madam Hooch awoke with a start, told Har­ry and Ron off for not wak­ing her, and in­sist­ed that they go back to the cas­tle.

Har­ry shoul­dered the Fire­bolt and he and Ron walked out of the shad­owy sta­di­um, dis­cussing the Fire­bolt’s su­perbly smooth ac­tion, its phe­nom­enal ac­cel­er­ation and its pin­point turn­ing.

They were halfway to­wards the cas­tle when Har­ry, glanc­ing to his left, saw some­thing that made his heart turn over – a pair of eyes, gleam­ing out of the dark­ness.

Har­ry stopped dead, his heart bang­ing against his ribs.

‘What’s the mat­ter?’ said Ron.

Har­ry point­ed. Ron pulled out his wand and mut­tered, ‘Lu­mos!’

A beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bot­tom of a tree and il­lu­mi­nat­ed its branch­es; there, crouch­ing amongst the bud­ding leaves, was Crook­shanks.

‘Get out of it!’ Ron roared, and he stooped down and seized a stone ly­ing on the grass, but be­fore he could do any­thing else, Crook­shanks had van­ished with one swish of his long gin­ger tail.

‘See?’ Ron said fu­ri­ous­ly, chuck­ing the stone down again. ‘She’s still let­ting him wan­der about wher­ev­er he wants – prob­ably wash­ing down Scab­bers with a cou­ple of birds now …’

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. He took a deep breath as re­lief seeped through him; he had been sure for a mo­ment that those eyes had be­longed to the Grim. They set off for the cas­tle once more. Slight­ly ashamed of his mo­ment of pan­ic, Har­ry didn’t say any­thing to Ron – nor did he look left or right un­til they had reached the well lit En­trance Hall.

*

Har­ry went down to break­fast next morn­ing with the rest of the boys in his dor­mi­to­ry, all of whom seemed to think the Fire­bolt de­served a sort of guard of hon­our. As Har­ry en­tered the Great Hall, heads turned in the di­rec­tion of the Fire­bolt, and there was a good deal of ex­cit­ed mut­ter­ing. Har­ry saw, with enor­mous sat­is­fac­tion, that the Slytherin team were all look­ing thun­der­struck.

‘Did you see his face?’ said Ron glee­ful­ly, look­ing back at Mal­foy. ‘He can’t be­lieve it! This is bril­liant!’

Wood, too, was bask­ing in the re­flect­ed glo­ry of the Fire­bolt.

‘Put it here, Har­ry,’ he said, lay­ing the broom in the mid­dle of the ta­ble and care­ful­ly turn­ing it so that its name faced up­wards. Peo­ple from the Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff ta­bles were soon com­ing over to look. Cedric Dig­gory came over to con­grat­ulate Har­ry on hav­ing ac­quired such a su­perb re­place­ment for his Nim­bus, and Per­cy’s Raven­claw girl­friend, Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter, asked if she could ac­tu­al­ly hold the Fire­bolt.

‘Now, now, Pen­ny, no sab­otage!’ said Per­cy hearti­ly, as she ex­am­ined the Fire­bolt close­ly. ‘Pene­lope and I have got a bet on,’ he told the team. ‘Ten Galleons on the out­come of the match!’

Pene­lope put the Fire­bolt down again, thanked Har­ry and went back to her ta­ble.

‘Har­ry – make sure you win,’ said Per­cy, in an ur­gent whis­per. ‘I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m com­ing, Pen­ny!’ And he bus­tled off to join her in a piece of toast.

‘Sure you can man­age that broom, Pot­ter?’ said a cold, drawl­ing voice.

Dra­co Mal­foy had ar­rived for a clos­er look, Crabbe and Goyle right be­hind him.

‘Yeah, reck­on so,’ said Har­ry ca­su­al­ly.

‘Got plen­ty of spe­cial fea­tures, hasn’t it?’ said Mal­foy, eyes glit­ter­ing ma­li­cious­ly. ‘Shame it doesn’t come with a parachute – in case you get too near a De­men­tor.’

Crabbe and Goyle snig­gered.

‘Pity you can’t at­tach an ex­tra arm to yours, Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry. ‘Then it could catch the Snitch for you.’

The Gryffind­or team laughed loud­ly. Mal­foy’s pale eyes nar­rowed, and he stalked away. They watched him re­join the rest of the Slytherin team, who put their heads to­geth­er, no doubt ask­ing Mal­foy whether Har­ry’s broom re­al­ly was a Fire­bolt.

At a quar­ter to eleven, the Gryffind­or team set off for the chang­ing rooms. The weath­er couldn’t have been more dif­fer­ent from their match against Huf­flepuff. It was a clear, cool day, with a very light breeze; there would be no vis­ibil­ity prob­lems this time, and Har­ry, though ner­vous, was start­ing to feel the ex­cite­ment on­ly a Quid­ditch match could bring. They could hear the rest of the school mov­ing in­to the sta­di­um be­yond. Har­ry took off his black school robes, re­moved his wand from his pock­et, and stuck it in­side the T-​shirt he was go­ing to wear un­der his Quid­ditch robes. He on­ly hoped he wouldn’t need it. He won­dered sud­den­ly whether Pro­fes­sor Lupin was in the crowd, watch­ing.

‘You know what we’ve got to do,’ said Wood, as they pre­pared to leave the chang­ing rooms. ‘If we lose this match, we’re out of the run­ning. Just – just fly like you did in prac­tice yes­ter­day, and we’ll be OK!’

They walked out on­to the pitch to tu­mul­tuous ap­plause. The Raven­claw team, dressed in blue, were al­ready stand­ing in the mid­dle of the pitch. Their Seek­er, Cho Chang, was the on­ly girl in their team. She was short­er than Har­ry by about a head, and Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing, ner­vous as he was, that she was ex­treme­ly pret­ty. She smiled at Har­ry as the teams faced each oth­er be­hind their cap­tains, and he felt a slight jolt in the re­gion of his stom­ach that he didn’t think had any­thing to do with nerves.

‘Wood, Davies, shake hands,’ Madam Hooch said briskly, and Wood shook hands with the Raven­claw cap­tain.

‘Mount your brooms … on my whis­tle … three – two – one –’

Har­ry kicked off in­to the air and the Fire­bolt zoomed high­er and faster than any oth­er broom; he soared around the sta­di­um and be­gan squint­ing around for the Snitch, lis­ten­ing all the while to the com­men­tary, which was be­ing pro­vid­ed by the Weasley twins’ friend, Lee Jor­dan.

‘They’re off, and the big ex­cite­ment this match is the Fire­bolt which Har­ry Pot­ter is fly­ing for Gryffind­or. Ac­cord­ing to Which Broom­stick, the Fire­bolt’s go­ing to be the broom of choice for the na­tion­al teams at this year’s World Cham­pi­onship –’

‘Jor­dan, would you mind telling us what’s go­ing on in the match?’ in­ter­rupt­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice.

‘Right you are, Pro­fes­sor – just giv­ing a bit of back­ground in­for­ma­tion. The Fire­bolt, in­ci­den­tal­ly, has a built-​in au­to-​brake and –’

‘Jor­dan!’

‘OK, OK, Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, Katie Bell of Gryffind­or head­ing for goal …’

Har­ry streaked past Katie in the op­po­site di­rec­tion, gaz­ing around for a glint of gold and notic­ing that Cho Chang was tail­ing him close­ly. She was un­doubt­ed­ly a very good fli­er – she kept cut­ting across him, forc­ing him to change di­rec­tion.

‘Show her your ac­cel­er­ation, Har­ry!’ Fred yelled, as he whooshed past in pur­suit of a Bludger that was aim­ing for Ali­cia.

Har­ry urged the Fire­bolt for­ward as they round­ed the Raven­claw goal­posts and Cho fell be­hind. Just as Katie suc­ceed­ed in scor­ing the first goal of the match, and the Gryffind­or end of the pitch went wild, he saw it – the Snitch was close to the ground, flit­ting near one of the bar­ri­ers.

Har­ry dived; Cho saw what he was do­ing and tore af­ter him. Har­ry was speed­ing up, ex­cite­ment flood­ing him; dives were his spe­cial­ity. He was ten feet away –

Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Raven­claw Beat­ers, came pelt­ing out of nowhere; Har­ry veered off course, avoid­ing it by an inch, and in those few, cru­cial sec­onds, the Snitch had van­ished.

There was a great ‘Ooooooh’ of dis­ap­point­ment from the Gryffind­or sup­port­ers, but much ap­plause for their Beat­er from the Raven­claw end. George Weasley vent­ed his feel­ings by hit­ting the sec­ond Bludger di­rect­ly at the of­fend­ing Beat­er, who was forced to roll right over in mid-​air to avoid it.

‘Gryffind­or lead by eighty points to ze­ro, and look at that Fire­bolt go! Pot­ter’s re­al­ly putting it through its paces now. See it turn – Chang’s Comet is just no match for it. The Fire­bolt’s pre­ci­sion-​bal­ance is re­al­ly no­tice­able in these long –’

‘JOR­DAN! ARE YOU BE­ING PAID TO AD­VER­TISE FIRE­BOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COM­MEN­TARY!’

Raven­claw were pulling back; they had now scored three goals, which put Gryffind­or on­ly fifty points ahead – if Cho got the Snitch be­fore him, Raven­claw would win. Har­ry dropped low­er, nar­row­ly avoid­ing a Raven­claw Chas­er, scan­ning the pitch fran­ti­cal­ly. A glint of gold, a flut­ter of tiny wings – the Snitch was cir­cling the Gryffind­or goal­post …

Har­ry ac­cel­er­at­ed, eyes fixed on the speck of gold ahead – but next sec­ond, Cho had ap­peared out of thin air, block­ing him –

‘HAR­RY, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GEN­TLE­MAN!’ Wood roared, as Har­ry swerved to avoid a col­li­sion. ‘KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!’

Har­ry turned and caught sight of Cho; she was grin­ning. The Snitch had van­ished again. Har­ry turned his Fire­bolt up­wards and was soon twen­ty feet above the game. Out of the cor­ner of his eye, he saw Cho fol­low­ing him … she’d de­cid­ed to mark him rather than search for the Snitch her­self. Right then … if she want­ed to tail him, she’d have to take the con­se­quences …

He dived again, and Cho, think­ing he’d seen the Snitch, tried to fol­low. Har­ry pulled out of the dive very sharply, she hur­tled down­wards; he rose fast as a bul­let once more, and then saw it, for the third time: the Snitch was glit­ter­ing way above the pitch at the Raven­claw end.

He ac­cel­er­at­ed; so, many feet be­low, did Cho. He was win­ning, gain­ing on the Snitch with ev­ery sec­ond – then –

‘Oh!’ screamed Cho, point­ing.

Dis­tract­ed, Har­ry looked down.

Three De­men­tors, three tall, black, hood­ed De­men­tors, were look­ing up at him.

He didn’t stop to think. Plung­ing a hand down the neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and roared, ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

Some­thing sil­ver white, some­thing enor­mous, erupt­ed from the end of his wand. He knew it had shot di­rect­ly at the De­men­tors but didn’t pause to watch; his mind still mirac­ulous­ly clear, he looked ahead – he was near­ly there. He stretched out the hand still grasp­ing his wand and just man­aged to close his fin­gers over the small, strug­gling Snitch.

Madam Hooch’s whis­tle sound­ed, Har­ry turned around in midair and saw six scar­let blurs bear­ing down on him. Next mo­ment, the whole team were hug­ging him so hard he was near­ly pulled off his broom. Down be­low he could hear the roars of the Gryffind­ors in the crowd.

‘That’s my boy!’ Wood kept yelling. Ali­cia, An­geli­na and Katie had all kissed Har­ry, and Fred had him in a grip so tight Har­ry felt as though his head would come off. In com­plete dis­ar­ray, the team man­aged to make its way back to the ground. Har­ry got off his broom and looked up to see a gag­gle of Gryffind­or sup­port­ers sprint­ing on­to the pitch, Ron in the lead. Be­fore he knew it, he had been en­gulfed by the cheer­ing crowd.

‘Yes!’ Ron yelled, yank­ing Har­ry’s arm in­to the air. ‘Yes! Yes!’

‘Well done, Har­ry!’ said Per­cy, look­ing de­light­ed. ‘Ten Galleons to me! Must find Pene­lope, ex­cuse me –’

‘Good on you, Har­ry!’ roared Sea­mus Finni­gan.

‘Rud­dy bril­liant!’ boomed Ha­grid over the heads of the milling Gryffind­ors.

‘That was quite some Pa­tronus,’ said a voice in Har­ry’s ear.

Har­ry turned around to see Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who looked both shak­en and pleased.

‘The De­men­tors didn’t af­fect me at all!’ Har­ry said ex­cit­ed­ly. ‘I didn’t feel a thing!’

‘That would be be­cause they – er – weren’t De­men­tors,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Come and see –’

He led Har­ry out of the crowd un­til they were able to see the edge of the pitch.

‘You gave Mr Mal­foy quite a fright,’ said Lupin.

Har­ry stared. Ly­ing in a crum­pled heap on the ground were Mal­foy, Crabbe, Goyle and Mar­cus Flint, the Slytherin team cap­tain, all strug­gling to re­move them­selves from long, black, hood­ed robes. It looked as though Mal­foy had been stand­ing on Goyle’s shoul­ders. Stand­ing over them, with an ex­pres­sion of the ut­most fury on her face, was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

‘An un­wor­thy trick!’ she was shout­ing. ‘A low and cow­ard­ly at­tempt to sab­otage the Gryffind­or Seek­er! De­ten­tion for all of you, and fifty points from Slytherin! I shall be speak­ing to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore about this, make no mis­take! Ah, here he comes now!’

If any­thing could have set the seal on Gryffind­or’s vic­to­ry, it was this. Ron, who had fought his way through to Har­ry’s side, dou­bled up with laugh­ter as they watched Mal­foy fight­ing to ex­tri­cate him­self from the robe, Goyle’s head still stuck in­side it.

‘Come on, Har­ry!’ said George, fight­ing his way over. ‘Par­ty! Gryffind­or com­mon room, now!’

‘Right,’ said Har­ry, and feel­ing hap­pi­er than he had done in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still in their scar­let robes, out of the sta­di­um and back up to the cas­tle.

*

It felt as though they had al­ready won the Quid­ditch Cup; the par­ty went on all day and well in­to the night. Fred and George Weasley dis­ap­peared for a cou­ple of hours and re­turned with arm­fuls of bot­tles of But­ter­beer, pump­kin fizz and sev­er­al bags full of Hon­ey­dukes sweets.

‘How did you do that?’ squealed An­geli­na John­son, as George start­ed throw­ing Pep­per­mint Toads in­to the crowd.

‘With a lit­tle help from Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs,’ Fred mut­tered in Har­ry’s ear.

On­ly one per­son wasn’t join­ing in the fes­tiv­ities. Hermione, in­cred­ibly, was sit­ting in a cor­ner, at­tempt­ing to read an enor­mous book en­ti­tled Home Life and So­cial Habits of British Mug­gles. Har­ry broke away from the ta­ble where Fred and George had start­ed jug­gling But­ter­beer bot­tles, and went over to her.

‘Did you even come to the match?’ he asked her.

‘Of course I did,’ said Hermione, in a strange­ly high-​pitched voice, not look­ing up. ‘And I’m very glad we won, and I think you did re­al­ly well, but I need to read this by Mon­day.’

‘Come on, Hermione, come and have some food,’ Har­ry said, look­ing over at Ron and won­der­ing whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the hatch­et.

‘I can’t, Har­ry, I’ve still got four hun­dred and twen­ty-​two pages to read!’ said Hermione, now sound­ing slight­ly hys­ter­ical.

‘Any­way …’ She glanced over at Ron, too, ‘he doesn’t want me to join in.’

There was no ar­gu­ing with this, as Ron chose that mo­ment to say loud­ly, ‘If Scab­bers hadn’t just been eat­en, he could have had some of these Fudge Flies, he used to re­al­ly like them –’

Hermione burst in­to tears. Be­fore Har­ry could say or do any­thing, she had tucked the enor­mous book un­der her arm, and, still sob­bing, run to­wards the stair­case to the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries and out of sight.

‘Can’t you give her a break?’ Har­ry asked Ron qui­et­ly.

‘No,’ said Ron flat­ly. ‘If she just act­ed like she was sor­ry – but she’ll nev­er ad­mit she’s wrong, Hermione. She’s still act­ing like Scab­bers has gone on hol­iday or some­thing.’

The Gryffind­or par­ty on­ly end­ed when Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned up in her tar­tan dress­ing gown and hair-​net at one in the morn­ing, to in­sist that they all went to bed. Har­ry and Ron climbed the stairs to their dor­mi­to­ry, still dis­cussing the match. At last, ex­haust­ed, Har­ry climbed in­to bed, twitched the hang­ings of his four-​poster shut to block out a ray of moon­light, lay back and felt him­self al­most in­stant­ly drift­ing off to sleep …

He had a very strange dream. He was walk­ing through a for­est, his Fire­bolt over his shoul­der, fol­low­ing some­thing sil­very white. It was wind­ing its way through the trees ahead, and he could on­ly catch glimpses of it be­tween the leaves. Anx­ious to catch up with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his quar­ry. Har­ry broke in­to a run and ahead, he heard hooves gath­er­ing speed. Now he was run­ning flat out, and ahead he could hear gal­lop­ing. Then he turned a cor­ner in­to a clear­ing and –

‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAR­RRRRRRRRRRRGGGH­HH­HH! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!’

Har­ry woke as sud­den­ly as though he’d been hit in the face. Dis­ori­en­tat­ed in the to­tal dark­ness, he fum­bled with his hang­ings – he could hear move­ments around him, and Sea­mus Finni­gan’s voice from the oth­er side of the room.

‘What’s go­ing on?’

Har­ry thought he heard the dor­mi­to­ry door slam. At last find­ing the di­vide in his cur­tains, he ripped them back, and at the same mo­ment, Dean Thomas lit his lamp.

Ron was sit­ting up in bed, the hang­ings torn from one side, a look of the ut­most ter­ror on his face.

‘Black! Sir­ius Black! With a knife!’

‘What?’

‘Here! Just now! Slashed the cur­tains! Woke me up!’

‘You sure you weren’t dream­ing, Ron?’ said Dean.

‘Look at the cur­tains! I tell you, he was here!’

They all scram­bled out of bed; Har­ry reached the dor­mi­to­ry door first, and they sprint­ed back down the stair­case. Doors opened be­hind them, and sleepy voic­es called af­ter them.

‘Who shout­ed?’

‘What’re you do­ing?’

The com­mon room was lit by the glow of the dy­ing fire, still lit­tered with de­bris from the par­ty. It was de­sert­ed.

‘Are you sure you weren’t dream­ing, Ron?’

‘I’m telling you, I saw him!’

‘What’s all the noise?’

‘Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told us to go to bed!’

A few of the girls had come down their stair­case, pulling on dress­ing gowns and yawn­ing. Boys, too, were reap­pear­ing.

‘Ex­cel­lent, are we car­ry­ing on?’ said Fred Weasley bright­ly.

‘Ev­ery­one back up­stairs!’ said Per­cy, hur­ry­ing in­to the com­mon room and pin­ning his Head Boy badge to his py­ja­mas as he spoke.

‘Perce – Sir­ius Black!’ said Ron faint­ly. ‘In our dor­mi­to­ry! With a knife! Woke me up!’

The com­mon room went very still.

‘Non­sense!’ said Per­cy, look­ing star­tled. ‘You had too much to eat, Ron – had a night­mare –’

‘I’m telling you –’

‘Now, re­al­ly, enough’s enough!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was back. She slammed the por­trait be­hind her as she en­tered the com­mon room and stared fu­ri­ous­ly around.

‘I am de­light­ed that Gryffind­or won the match, but this is get­ting ridicu­lous! Per­cy, I ex­pect­ed bet­ter of you!’

‘I cer­tain­ly didn’t au­tho­rise this, Pro­fes­sor!’ said Per­cy, puff­ing him­self up in­dig­nant­ly. ‘I was just telling them all to get back to bed! My broth­er Ron here had a night­mare –’

‘IT WASN’T A NIGHT­MARE!’ Ron yelled. ‘PRO­FES­SOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIR­IUS BLACK WAS STAND­ING OVER ME, HOLD­ING A KNIFE!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared at him. ‘Don’t be ridicu­lous, Weasley, how could he pos­si­bly have got through the por­trait hole?’

‘Ask him!’ said Ron, point­ing a shak­ing fin­ger at the back of Sir Cado­gan’s pic­ture. ‘Ask him if he saw –’

Glar­ing sus­pi­cious­ly at Ron, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pushed the por­trait back open and went out­side. The whole com­mon room lis­tened with bait­ed breath.

‘Sir Cado­gan, did you just let a man en­ter Gryffind­or Tow­er?’

‘Cer­tain­ly good la­dy!’ cried Sir Cado­gan.

There was a stunned si­lence, both in­side and out­side the com­mon room.

‘You – you did?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘But – but the pass­word!’

‘He had ’em!’ said Sir Cado­gan proud­ly. ‘Had the whole week’s, my la­dy! Read ’em off a lit­tle piece of pa­per!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pulled her­self back through the por­trait hole to face the stunned crowd. She was white as chalk.

‘Which per­son,’ she said, her voice shak­ing, ‘which abysmal­ly fool­ish per­son wrote down this week’s pass­words and left them ly­ing around?’

There was ut­ter si­lence, bro­ken by the small­est of ter­ri­fied squeaks. Neville Long­bot­tom, trem­bling from head to fluffy-​slip­pered toes, raised his hand slow­ly in­to the air.





