CHAPTER FOURTEEN


Snape’s Grudge



No one in Gryffind­or Tow­er slept that night. They knew that the cas­tle was be­ing searched again, and the whole house stayed awake in the com­mon room, wait­ing to hear whether Black had been caught. Pro­fes­sor Mc­Gongall came back at dawn, to tell them that he had again es­caped.

Ev­ery­where they went next day they saw signs of tighter se­cu­ri­ty; Pro­fes­sor Flitwick could be seen teach­ing the front doors to recog­nise a large pic­ture of Sir­ius Black; Filch was sud­den­ly bustling up and down the cor­ri­dors, board­ing up ev­ery­thing from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. Sir Cado­gan had been sacked. His por­trait had been tak­en back to its lone­ly land­ing on the sev­enth floor, and the Fat La­dy was back. She had been ex­pert­ly re­stored, but was still ex­treme­ly ner­vous, and had on­ly agreed to re­turn to her job on con­di­tion that she was giv­en ex­tra pro­tec­tion. A bunch of surly se­cu­ri­ty trolls had been hired to guard her. They paced the cor­ri­dor in a men­ac­ing group, talk­ing in grunts and com­par­ing the size of their clubs.

Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing that the stat­ue of the one-​eyed witch on the third floor re­mained un­guard­ed and un­blocked. It seemed that Fred and George had been right in think­ing that they – and now Har­ry, Ron and Hermione – were the on­ly ones who knew about the hid­den pas­sage­way with­in it.

‘D’you reck­on we should tell some­one?’ Har­ry asked Ron.

‘We know he’s not com­ing in through Hon­ey­dukes,’ said Ron dis­mis­sive­ly. ‘We’d’ve heard if the shop had been bro­ken in­to.’

Har­ry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-​eyed witch was board­ed up too, he would nev­er be able to go in­to Hogsmeade again.

Ron had be­come an in­stant celebri­ty. For the first time in his life, peo­ple were pay­ing more at­ten­tion to him than to Har­ry, and it was clear that Ron was rather en­joy­ing the ex­pe­ri­ence. Though still severe­ly shak­en by the night’s events, he was hap­py to tell any­one who asked, what had hap­pened, with a wealth of de­tail.

‘ was asleep, and I heard this rip­ping noise, and I thought it was in my dream, you know? But then there was this draught … I woke up and one side of the hang­ings on my bed had been pulled down … I rolled over … and I saw him stand­ing over me … like a skele­ton, with loads of filthy hair … hold­ing this great long knife, must’ve been twelve inch­es … and he looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled, and he scarpered.

‘Why, though?’ Ron added to Har­ry, as the group of sec­ond-​year girls who had been lis­ten­ing to his chill­ing tale de­part­ed. ‘Why did he scarp­er?’

Har­ry had been won­der­ing the same thing. Why had Black, hav­ing got the wrong bed, not si­lenced Ron and pro­ceed­ed to Har­ry? Black had proved twelve years ago that he didn’t mind mur­der­ing in­no­cent peo­ple, and this time he had been fac­ing five un­armed boys, four of whom were asleep.

‘He must’ve known he’d have a job get­ting back out of the cas­tle once you’d yelled and wo­ken peo­ple up,’ said Har­ry thought­ful­ly. ‘He’d’ve had to kill the whole house to get back through the por­trait hole … then he would’ve met the teach­ers …’

Neville was in to­tal dis­grace. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was so fu­ri­ous with him she had banned him from all fu­ture Hogsmeade vis­its, giv­en him a de­ten­tion and for­bid­den any­one to give him the pass­word in­to the Tow­er. Poor Neville was forced to wait out­side the com­mon room ev­ery night for some­body to let him in, while the se­cu­ri­ty trolls leered un­pleas­ant­ly at him. None of these pun­ish­ments, how­ev­er, came close to match­ing the one his grand­moth­er had in store for him. Two days af­ter Black’s break-​in, she sent Neville the very worst thing a Hog­warts stu­dent could re­ceive over break­fast – a Howler.

The school owls swooped in­to the Great Hall, car­ry­ing the post as usu­al, and Neville choked as a huge barn owl land­ed in front of him, a scar­let en­ve­lope clutched in its beak. Har­ry and Ron, who were sit­ting op­po­site him, recog­nised the let­ter as a Howler at once – Ron had got one from his moth­er the year be­fore.

‘Run for it, Neville,’ Ron ad­vised.

Neville didn’t need telling twice. He seized the en­ve­lope and, hold­ing it be­fore him like a bomb, sprint­ed out of the Hall, while the Slytherin ta­ble ex­plod­ed with laugh­ter at the sight of him. They heard the Howler go off in the En­trance Hall – Neville’s grand­moth­er’s voice, mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied to a hun­dred times its usu­al vol­ume, shriek­ing about how he had brought shame on the whole fam­ily.

Har­ry was too busy feel­ing sor­ry for Neville to no­tice im­me­di­ate­ly that he had a let­ter, too. Hed­wig got his at­ten­tion by nip­ping him sharply on the wrist.

‘Ouch! Oh – thanks, Hed­wig …’

Har­ry tore open the en­ve­lope while Hed­wig helped her­self to some of Neville’s corn­flakes. The note in­side said:



Dear Har­ry and Ron,

How about hav­ing tea with me this af­ter­noon round six? I’ll come and col­lect you from the cas­tle. WAIT FOR ME IN THE EN­TRANCE HALL, YOU’RE NOT AL­LOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN.

Cheers,

Ha­grid



‘He prob­ably wants to hear all about Black!’ said Ron.

So at six o’clock that af­ter­noon, Har­ry and Ron left Gryffind­or Tow­er, passed the se­cu­ri­ty trolls at a run, and head­ed down to the En­trance Hall.

Ha­grid was al­ready wait­ing for them.

‘All right, Ha­grid!’ said Ron. ‘S’pose you want to hear about Sat­ur­day night, do you?’

‘I’ve al­ready heard all abou’ it,’ said Ha­grid, open­ing the front doors and lead­ing them out­side.

‘Oh,’ said Ron, look­ing slight­ly put out.

The first thing they saw on en­ter­ing Ha­grid’s cab­in was Buck­beak, who was stretched out on top of Ha­grid’s patch­work quilt, his enor­mous wings fold­ed tight to his body, en­joy­ing a large plate of dead fer­rets. Avert­ing his eyes from this un­pleas­ant sight, Har­ry saw a gi­gan­tic, hairy brown suit and a very hor­ri­ble yel­low and or­ange tie hang­ing from the top of Ha­grid’s wardrobe door.

‘What are they for, Ha­grid?’ said Har­ry.

‘Buck­beak’s case against the Com­mit­tee fer the Dis­pos­al o’ Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures,’ said Ha­grid. ‘This Fri­day. Him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter Lon­don to­geth­er. I’ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus …’

Har­ry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten that Buck­beak’s tri­al was so near, and judg­ing by the un­easy look on Ron’s face, he had, too. They had al­so for­got­ten their promise about help­ing him pre­pare Buck­beak’s de­fence; the ar­rival of the Fire­bolt had driv­en it clean out of their minds.

Ha­grid poured them tea and of­fered them a plate of Bath buns, but they knew bet­ter than to ac­cept; they had had too much ex­pe­ri­ence of Ha­grid’s cook­ing.

‘I got some­thin’ ter dis­cuss with you two,’ said Ha­grid, sit­ting him­self be­tween them and look­ing un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly se­ri­ous.

‘What?’ said Har­ry.

‘Hermione,’ said Ha­grid.

‘What about her?’ said Ron.

‘She’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. She’s bin comin’ down ter vis­it me a lot since Chris’mas. Bin feel­in’ lone­ly. Firs’ yeh weren’ talk­ing to her be­cause o’ the Fire­bolt, now yer not talkin’ to her be­cause her cat –’

‘– ate Scab­bers!’ Ron in­ter­ject­ed an­gri­ly.

‘Be­cause her cat act­ed like all cats do,’ Ha­grid con­tin­ued dogged­ly. ‘She’s cried a fair few times, yeh know. Goin’ through a rough time at the mo­ment. Bit­ten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work she’s tryin’ ter do. Still found time ter help me with Buck­beak’s case, mind … she’s found some re­al­ly good stuff fer me … reck­on he’ll stand a good chance now …’

‘Ha­grid, we should’ve helped as well – sor­ry –’ Har­ry be­gan awk­ward­ly.

‘I’m not blamin’ yeh!’ said Ha­grid, wav­ing Har­ry’s apol­ogy aside. ‘Gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be get­tin’ on with, I’ve seen yeh prac­tisin’ Quid­ditch ev’ry hour o’ the day an’ night – but I got­ta tell yeh, I thought you two’d val­ue yer friend more’n broom­sticks or rats. Tha’s all.’

Har­ry and Ron ex­changed un­com­fort­able looks.

‘Re­al­ly up­set, she was, when Black near­ly stabbed yeh, Ron. She’s got her heart in the right place, Hermione has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her –’

‘If she’d just get rid of that cat, I’d speak to her again!’ Ron said an­gri­ly, ‘but she’s still stick­ing up for it! It’s a ma­ni­ac, and she won’t hear a word against it!’

‘Ah, well, peo­ple can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,’ said Ha­grid wise­ly. Be­hind him, Buck­beak spat a few fer­ret bones on­to Ha­grid’s pil­low.

They spent the rest of their vis­it dis­cussing Gryffind­or’s im­proved chances for the Quid­ditch Cup. At nine o’clock, Ha­grid walked them back up to the cas­tle.

A large group of peo­ple was bunched around the no­tice-​board when they re­turned to the com­mon room.

‘Hogsmeade, next week­end!’ said Ron, cran­ing over the heads to read the new no­tice. ‘What d’you reck­on?’ he added qui­et­ly to Har­ry, as they went to sit down.

‘Well, Filch hasn’t done any­thing about the pas­sage in­to Hon­ey­dukes …’ Har­ry said, even more qui­et­ly.

‘Har­ry!’ said a voice in his right ear. Har­ry start­ed and looked around at Hermione, who was sit­ting at the ta­ble right be­hind them and clear­ing a space in the wall of books that had been hid­ing her.

‘Har­ry if you go in­to Hogsmeade again … I’ll tell Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall about that map!’ said Hermione.

‘Can you hear some­one talk­ing, Har­ry?’ growled Ron, not look­ing at Hermione.

‘Ron, how can you let him go with you? Af­ter what Sir­ius Black near­ly did to you! I mean it, I’ll tell –’

‘So now you’re try­ing to get Har­ry ex­pelled!’ said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘Haven’t you done enough dam­age this year?’

Hermione opened her mouth to re­spond, but with a soft hiss, Crook­shanks leapt on­to her lap. Hermione took one fright­ened look at the ex­pres­sion on Ron’s face, gath­ered Crook­shanks up and hur­ried away to­wards the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries.

‘So how about it?’ Ron said to Har­ry, as though there had been no in­ter­rup­tion. ‘Come on, last time we went you didn’t see any­thing. You haven’t even been in­side Zonko’s yet!’

Har­ry looked around to check that Hermione was well out of earshot.

‘OK,’ he said. ‘But I’m tak­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak this time.’

*

On Sat­ur­day morn­ing, Har­ry packed his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in his bag, slipped the Ma­raud­er’s Map in­to his pock­et and went down to break­fast with ev­ery­one else. Hermione kept shoot­ing sus­pi­cious looks down the ta­ble at him, but he avoid­ed her eye, and was care­ful to let her see him walk­ing back up the mar­ble stair­case in the En­trance Hall as ev­ery­body else pro­ceed­ed to the front doors.

‘Bye!’ Har­ry called to Ron. ‘See you when you get back!’

Ron grinned and winked.

Har­ry hur­ried up to the third floor, slip­ping the Ma­raud­er’s Map out of his pock­et as he went. Crouch­ing be­hind the one-​eyed witch, he smoothed it out. A tiny dot was mov­ing in his di­rec­tion. Har­ry squint­ed at it. The mi­nus­cule writ­ing next to it read ‘Neville Long­bot­tom’.

Har­ry quick­ly pulled out his wand, mut­tered ‘Dis­sendi­um!’ and shoved his bag in­to the stat­ue, but be­fore he could climb in him­self, Neville came around the cor­ner.

‘Har­ry! I for­got you weren’t go­ing to Hogsmeade ei­ther!’

‘Hi, Neville,’ said Har­ry, mov­ing swift­ly away from the stat­ue and push­ing the map back in­to his pock­et. ‘What are you up to?’

‘Noth­ing,’ shrugged Neville. ‘Want a game of Ex­plod­ing Snap?’

‘Er – not now – I was go­ing to go to the li­brary and do that vam­pire es­say for Lupin –’

‘I’ll come with you!’ said Neville bright­ly. ‘I haven’t done it ei­ther!’

‘Er – hang on – yeah, I for­got, I fin­ished it last night!’

‘Bril­liant, you can help me!’ said Neville, his round face anx­ious. ‘I don’t un­der­stand that thing about the gar­lic at all – do they have to eat it, or –’

Neville broke off with a small gasp, look­ing over Har­ry’s shoul­der.

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step be­hind Har­ry.

‘And what are you two do­ing here?’ said Snape, com­ing to a halt and look­ing from one to the oth­er. ‘An odd place to meet –’

To Har­ry’s im­mense dis­qui­et, Snape’s black eyes flicked to the door­ways on ei­ther side of them, and then to the one-​eyed witch.

‘We’re not – meet­ing here,’ said Har­ry. ‘We just – met here.’

‘In­deed?’ said Snape. ‘You have a habit of turn­ing up in un­ex­pect­ed places, Pot­ter, and you are rarely there for no rea­son … I sug­gest the pair of you re­turn to Gryffind­or Tow­er where you be­long.’

Har­ry and Neville set off with­out an­oth­er word. As they turned the cor­ner, Har­ry looked back. Snape was run­ning one of his hands over the one-​eyed witch’s head, ex­am­in­ing it close­ly.

Har­ry man­aged to shake Neville off at the Fat La­dy by telling him the pass­word then pre­tend­ing he’d left his vam­pire es­say in the li­brary and dou­bling back. Once out of sight of the se­cu­ri­ty trolls, he pulled out the map again and held it close to his nose.

The third-​floor cor­ri­dor seemed to be de­sert­ed. Har­ry scanned the map care­ful­ly and saw, with a leap of re­lief, that the tiny dot la­belled ‘Severus Snape’ was now back in its of­fice.

He sprint­ed back to the one-​eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved him­self in­side and slid down to meet his bag at the bot­tom of the stone chute. He wiped the Ma­raud­er’s Map blank again, then set off at a run.

*

Har­ry, com­plete­ly hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, emerged in­to the sun­light out­side Hon­ey­dukes and prod­ded Ron in the back.

‘It’s me,’ he mut­tered.

‘What kept you?’ Ron hissed.

‘Snape was hang­ing around …’

They set off up the High Street.

‘Where are you?’ Ron kept mut­ter­ing out of the cor­ner of his mouth. ‘Are you still there? This feels weird …’

They went to the Post Of­fice; Ron pre­tend­ed to be check­ing the price of an owl to Bill in Egypt so that Har­ry could have a good look around. The owls sat hoot­ing soft­ly down at him, at least three hun­dred of them; from Great Greys right down to tiny lit­tle Scops owls (‘Lo­cal De­liv­er­ies On­ly’) which were so small they could have sat in the palm of Har­ry’s hand.

Then they vis­it­ed Zonko’s, which was so packed with stu­dents Har­ry had to ex­er­cise great care not to tread on any­one and cause a pan­ic. There were jokes and tricks to ful­fil even Fred and George’s wildest dreams; Har­ry gave Ron whis­pered or­ders and passed him some gold from un­der the Cloak. They left Zonko’s with their mon­ey bags con­sid­er­ably lighter than they had been on en­ter­ing, but their pock­ets bulging with Dung­bombs, Hic­cough Sweets, Frog Spawn Soap and a Nose-​Bit­ing Teacup apiece.

The day was fine and breezy, and nei­ther of them felt like stay­ing in­doors, so they walked past the Three Broom­sticks and climbed a slope to vis­it the Shriek­ing Shack, the most haunt­ed dwelling in Britain. It stood a lit­tle way above the rest of the vil­lage, and even in day­light was slight­ly creepy, with its board­ed win­dows and dank over­grown gar­den.

‘Even the Hog­warts ghosts avoid it,’ said Ron, as they leaned on the fence, look­ing up at it. ‘I asked Near­ly Head­less Nick … he says he’s heard a very rough crowd live here. No one can get in. Fred and George tried, ob­vi­ous­ly, but all the en­trances are sealed shut …’

Har­ry, feel­ing hot from their climb, was just con­sid­er­ing tak­ing off the Cloak for a few min­utes, when they heard voic­es near­by. Some­one was climb­ing to­wards the house from the oth­er side of the hill; mo­ments lat­er, Mal­foy had ap­peared, fol­lowed close­ly by Crabbe and Goyle. Mal­foy was speak­ing.

‘… should have an owl from Fa­ther any time now. He had to go to the hear­ing to tell them about my arm … about how I couldn’t use it for three months …’

Crabbe and Goyle snig­gered.

‘I re­al­ly wish I could hear that great hairy mo­ron try­ing to de­fend him­self … ‘There’s no ’arm in ’im , ’on­est –’ … that Hip­pogriff’s as good as dead –’

Mal­foy sud­den­ly caught sight of Ron. His pale face split in a malev­olent grin.

‘What are you do­ing, Weasley?’

Mal­foy looked up at the crum­bling house be­hind Ron.

‘Sup­pose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, Weasley? Dream­ing about hav­ing your own bed­room? I heard your fam­ily all sleep in one room – is that true?’

Har­ry seized the back of Ron’s robes to stop him leap­ing on Mal­foy.

‘Leave him to me,’ he hissed in Ron’s ear.

The op­por­tu­ni­ty was too per­fect to miss. Har­ry crept silent­ly around be­hind Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle, bent down and scooped a large hand­ful of mud out of the path.

‘We were just dis­cussing your friend Ha­grid,’ Mal­foy said to Ron. ‘Just try­ing to imag­ine what he’s say­ing to the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures. D’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his Hip­pogriff’s –’

SPLAT!

Mal­foy’s head jerked for­wards as the mud hit him; his sil­ver-​blond hair was sud­den­ly drip­ping in muck.

‘What the –?’

Ron had to hold on­to the fence to keep him­self stand­ing, he was laugh­ing so hard. Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle spun stupid­ly on the spot, star­ing wild­ly around, Mal­foy try­ing to wipe his hair clean.

‘What was that? Who did that?’

‘Very haunt­ed up here, isn’t it?’ said Ron, with the air of one com­ment­ing on the weath­er.

Crabbe and Goyle were look­ing scared. Their bulging mus­cles were no use against ghosts. Mal­foy was star­ing mad­ly around at the de­sert­ed land­scape.

Har­ry sneaked along the path, where a par­tic­ular­ly slop­py pud­dle yield­ed some foul-​smelling, green sludge.

SPLAT­TER!

Crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle hopped fu­ri­ous­ly on the spot, try­ing to rub it out of his small, dull eyes.

‘It came from over there!’ said Mal­foy, wip­ing his face, and star­ing at a spot some six feet to the left of Har­ry.

Crabbe blun­dered for­wards, his long arms out­stretched like a zom­bie. Har­ry dodged around him, picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Crabbe’s back. Har­ry dou­bled up with silent laugh­ter as Crabbe did a kind of pirou­ette in mid-​air, try­ing to see who had thrown it. As Ron was the on­ly per­son Crabbe could see, it was Ron he start­ed to­wards, but Har­ry stuck out his leg. Crabbe stum­bled – and his huge, flat foot caught the hem of Har­ry’s Cloak. Har­ry felt a great tug, then the Cloak slid off his face.

For a split sec­ond, Mal­foy stared at him.

‘AAARGH!’ he yelled, point­ing at Har­ry’s head. Then he turned tail and ran, at break­neck speed, back down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle be­hind him.

Har­ry tugged the Cloak up again, but the dam­age was done.

‘Har­ry!’ Ron said, stum­bling for­ward and star­ing hope­less­ly at the point where Har­ry had dis­ap­peared, ‘you’d bet­ter run for it! If Mal­foy tells any­one – you’d bet­ter get back to the cas­tle, quick –’

‘See you lat­er,’ said Har­ry, and with­out an­oth­er word, he tore back down the path to­wards Hogsmeade.

Would Mal­foy be­lieve what he had seen? Would any­one be­lieve Mal­foy? No­body knew about the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak – no­body ex­cept Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry’s stom­ach turned over – Dum­ble­dore would know ex­act­ly what had hap­pened, if Mal­foy said any­thing –

Back in­to Hon­ey­dukes, back down the cel­lar steps, across the stone floor, through the trap­door – Har­ry pulled off the Cloak, tucked it un­der his arm, and ran, flat out, along the pas­sage …

Mal­foy would get back first … how long would it take him to find a teach­er? Pant­ing, a sharp pain in his side, Har­ry didn’t slow down un­til he reached the stone slide. He would have to leave the Cloak where it was, it was too much of a give­away if Mal­foy had tipped off a teach­er. He hid it in a shad­owy cor­ner, then start­ed to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty hands slip­ping on the sides of the chute. He reached the in­side of the witch’s hump, tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through and hoist­ed him­self out; the hump closed, and just as Har­ry jumped out from be­hind the stat­ue, he heard quick foot­steps ap­proach­ing.

It was Snape. He ap­proached Har­ry at a swift walk, his black robes swish­ing, then stopped in front of him.

‘So,’ he said.

There was a look of sup­pressed tri­umph about him. Har­ry tried to look in­no­cent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his mud­dy hands, which he quick­ly hid in his pock­ets.

‘Come with me, Pot­ter,’ said Snape.

Har­ry fol­lowed him down­stairs, try­ing to wipe his hands clean on the in­side of his robes with­out Snape notic­ing. They walked down the stairs to the dun­geons and then in­to Snape’s of­fice.

Har­ry had on­ly been in here once be­fore, and he had been in very se­ri­ous trou­ble then, too. Snape had aquired a few more hor­ri­ble slimy things in jars since last time, all stand­ing on shelves be­hind his desk, glint­ing in the fire­light and adding to the threat­en­ing at­mo­sphere.

‘Sit,’ said Snape.

Har­ry sat. Snape, how­ev­er, re­mained stand­ing.

‘Mr Mal­foy has just been to see me with a strange sto­ry, Pot­ter,’ said Snape.

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing.

‘He tells me that he was up by the Shriek­ing Shack when he ran in­to Weasley – ap­par­ent­ly alone.’

Still, Har­ry didn’t speak.

‘Mr Mal­foy states that he was stand­ing talk­ing to Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that could have hap­pened?’

Har­ry tried to look mild­ly sur­prised.

‘I don’t know, Pro­fes­sor.’

Snape’s eyes were bor­ing in­to Har­ry’s. It was ex­act­ly like try­ing to stare out a Hip­pogriff. Har­ry tried hard not to blink.

‘Mr Mal­foy then saw an ex­traor­di­nary ap­pari­tion. Can you imag­ine what it might have been, Pot­ter?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry, now try­ing to sound in­no­cent­ly cu­ri­ous.

‘It was your head, Pot­ter. Float­ing in mid-​air.’

There was a long si­lence.

‘Maybe he’d bet­ter go to Madam Pom­frey,’ said Har­ry. ‘If he’s see­ing things like –’

‘What would your head have been do­ing in Hogsmeade, Pot­ter?’ said Snape soft­ly. ‘Your head is not al­lowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has per­mis­sion to be in Hogsmeade.’

‘I know that,’ said Har­ry, striv­ing to keep his face free of guilt or fear. ‘It sounds like Mal­foy’s hav­ing hal­lu­cin–’

‘Mal­foy is not hav­ing hal­lu­ci­na­tions,’ snarled Snape, and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Har­ry’s chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. ‘If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.’

‘I’ve been up in Gryffind­or Tow­er,’ said Har­ry. ‘Like you told –’

‘Can any­one con­firm that?’

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. Snape’s thin mouth curled in­to a hor­ri­ble smile.

‘So,’ he said, straight­en­ing up again. ‘Ev­ery­one from the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic down­wards has been try­ing to keep fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter safe from Sir­ius Black. But fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter is a law un­to him­self. Let the or­di­nary peo­ple wor­ry about his safe­ty! Fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter goes where he wants to, with no thought for the con­se­quences.’

Har­ry stayed silent. Snape was try­ing to pro­voke him in­to telling the truth. He wasn’t go­ing to do it. Snape had no proof – yet.

‘How ex­traor­di­nar­ily like your fa­ther you are, Pot­ter,’ Snape said sud­den­ly, his eyes glint­ing. ‘He, too, was ex­ceed­ing­ly ar­ro­gant. A small amount of tal­ent on the Quid­ditch pitch made him think he was a cut above the rest of us, too. Strut­ting around the place with his friends and ad­mir­ers … the re­sem­blance be­tween you is un­can­ny.’

‘My dad didn’t strut,’ said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self. ‘And nor do I.’

‘Your fa­ther didn’t set much store by rules, ei­ther,’ Snape went on, press­ing his ad­van­tage, his thin face full of mal­ice. ‘Rules were for less­er mor­tals, not Quid­ditch Cup-​win­ners. His head was so swollen –’

‘SHUT UP!’

Har­ry was sud­den­ly on his feet. Rage such as he had not felt since his last night in Priv­et Drive was thun­der­ing through him. He didn’t care that Snape’s face had gone rigid, the black eyes flash­ing dan­ger­ous­ly.

‘What did you say to me, Pot­ter?’

‘I told you to shut up about my dad!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘I know the truth, all right? He saved your life! Dum­ble­dore told me! You wouldn’t even be here if it weren’t for my dad!’

Snape’s sal­low skin had gone the colour of sour milk.

‘And did the Head­mas­ter tell you the cir­cum­stances in which your fa­ther saved my life?’ he whis­pered. ‘Or did he con­sid­er the de­tails too un­pleas­ant for pre­cious Pot­ter’s del­icate ears?’

Har­ry bit his lip. He didn’t know what had hap­pened and didn’t want to ad­mit it – but Snape seemed to have guessed the truth.

‘I would hate you to run away with a false idea of your fa­ther, Pot­ter,’ he said, a ter­ri­ble grin twist­ing his face. ‘Have you been imag­in­ing some act of glo­ri­ous hero­ism? Then let me cor­rect you – your saint­ly fa­ther and his friends played a high­ly amus­ing joke on me that would have re­sult­ed in my death if your fa­ther hadn’t got cold feet at the last mo­ment. There was noth­ing brave about what he did. He was sav­ing his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke suc­ceed­ed, he would have been ex­pelled from Hog­warts.’

Snape’s un­even, yel­low­ish teeth were bared.

‘Turn out your pock­ets, Pot­ter!’ he spat sud­den­ly.

Har­ry didn’t move. There was a pound­ing in his ears.

‘Turn out your pock­ets, or we go straight to the Head­mas­ter! Pull them out, Pot­ter!’

Cold with dread, Har­ry slow­ly pulled out the bag of Zonko’s tricks and the Ma­raud­er’s Map.

Snape picked up the Zonko’s bag.

‘Ron gave them to me,’ said Har­ry, pray­ing he’d get a chance to tip Ron off be­fore Snape saw him. ‘He – brought them back from Hogsmeade last time –’

‘In­deed? And you’ve been car­ry­ing them round ev­er since? How very touch­ing … and what is this?’

Snape had picked up the map. Har­ry tried with all his might to keep his face im­pas­sive.

‘Spare bit of parch­ment,’ he shrugged.

Snape turned it over, his eyes on Har­ry.

‘Sure­ly you don’t need such a very old piece of parch­ment?’ he said. ‘Why don’t I just – throw this away?’

His hand moved to­wards the fire.

‘No!’ Har­ry said quick­ly.

‘So!’ said Snape, his long nos­trils quiv­er­ing. ‘Is this an­oth­er trea­sured gift from Mr Weasley? Or is it – some­thing else? A let­ter, per­haps, writ­ten in in­vis­ible ink? Or – in­struc­tions to get in­to Hogsmeade with­out pass­ing the De­men­tors?’

Har­ry blinked. Snape’s eyes gleamed.

‘Let me see, let me see …’ he mut­tered, tak­ing out his wand and smooth­ing the map out on his desk. ‘Re­veal your se­cret!’ he said, touch­ing the wand to the parch­ment.

Noth­ing hap­pened. Har­ry clenched his hands to stop them shak­ing.

‘Show your­self!’ Snape said, tap­ping the map sharply.

It stayed blank. Har­ry was tak­ing deep, calm­ing breaths.

‘Pro­fes­sor Severus Snape, mas­ter of this school, com­mands you to yield the in­for­ma­tion you con­ceal!’ Snape said, hit­ting the map with his wand.

As though an in­vis­ible hand was writ­ing up­on it, words ap­peared on the smooth sur­face of the map.

‘Mr Moony presents his com­pli­ments to Pro­fes­sor Snape, and begs him to keep his ab­nor­mal­ly large nose out of oth­er peo­ple’s busi­ness.’

Snape froze. Har­ry stared, dumb­struck, at the mes­sage. But the map didn’t stop there. More writ­ing was ap­pear­ing be­neath the first.

‘Mr Prongs agrees with Mr Moony, and would like to add that Pro­fes­sor Snape is an ug­ly git.’

It would have been very fun­ny if the sit­ua­tion hadn’t been so se­ri­ous. And there was more …

‘Mr Pad­foot would like to reg­is­ter his as­ton­ish­ment that an id­iot like that ev­er be­came a Pro­fes­sor.’

Har­ry closed his eyes in hor­ror. When he’d opened them, the map had had its last word.

‘Mr Worm­tail bids Pro­fes­sor Snape good day, and ad­vis­es him to wash his hair, the slime­ball.’

Har­ry wait­ed for the blow to fall.

‘So …’ said Snape soft­ly. ‘We’ll see about this …’

He strode across to his fire, seized a fist­ful of glit­ter­ing pow­der from a jar on the fire­place, and threw it in­to the flames.

‘Lupin!’ Snape called in­to the fire. ‘I want a word!’

Ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered, Har­ry stared at the fire. A large shape had ap­peared in it, re­volv­ing very fast. Sec­onds lat­er, Pro­fes­sor Lupin was clam­ber­ing out of the fire­place, brush­ing ash off his shab­by robes.

‘You called, Severus?’ said Lupin mild­ly.

‘I cer­tain­ly did,’ said Snape, his face con­tort­ed with fury as he strode back to his desk. ‘I have just asked Pot­ter to emp­ty his pock­ets. He was car­ry­ing this.’

Snape point­ed at the parch­ment, on which the words of Messrs Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs were still shin­ing. An odd, closed ex­pres­sion ap­peared on Lupin’s face.

‘Well?’ said Snape.

Lupin con­tin­ued to stare at the map. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Lupin was do­ing some very quick think­ing.

‘Well?’ said Snape again. ‘This parch­ment is plain­ly full of Dark Mag­ic. This is sup­posed to be your area of ex­per­tise, Lupin. Where do you imag­ine Pot­ter got such a thing?’

Lupin looked up and, by the mer­est half-​glance in Har­ry’s di­rec­tion, warned him not to in­ter­rupt.

‘Full of Dark Mag­ic?’ he re­peat­ed mild­ly. ‘Do you re­al­ly think so, Severus? It looks to me as though it is mere­ly a piece of parch­ment that in­sults any­body who tries to read it. Child­ish, but sure­ly not dan­ger­ous? I imag­ine Har­ry got it from a joke-​shop –’

‘In­deed?’ said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. ‘You think a joke-​shop could sup­ply him with such a thing? You don’t think it more like­ly that he got it di­rect­ly from the man­ufac­tur­ers?’

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand what Snape was talk­ing about. Nor, ap­par­ent­ly, did Lupin.

‘You mean, from Mr Worm­tail or one of these peo­ple?’ he said. ‘Har­ry, do you know any of these men?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry quick­ly.

‘You see, Severus?’ said Lupin, turn­ing back to Snape. ‘It looks like a Zonko prod­uct to me –’

Right on cue, Ron came burst­ing in­to the of­fice. He was com­plete­ly out of breath, and stopped just short of Snape’s desk, clutch­ing the stitch in his chest and try­ing to speak.

‘I – gave – Har­ry – that – stuff,’ he choked. ‘Bought – it – in Zonkos – ages – ago …’

‘Well!’ said Lupin, clap­ping his hands to­geth­er and look­ing around cheer­ful­ly. ‘That seems to clear that up! Severus, I’ll take this back, shall I?’ He fold­ed the map and tucked it in­side his robes. ‘Har­ry, Ron, come with me, I need a word about my vam­pire es­say. Ex­cuse us, Severus.’

Har­ry didn’t dare look at Snape as they left his of­fice. He, Ron and Lupin walked all the way back in­to the En­trance Hall be­fore speak­ing. Then Har­ry turned to Lupin.

‘Pro­fes­sor, I –’

‘I don’t want to hear ex­pla­na­tions,’ said Lupin short­ly. He glanced around the emp­ty En­trance Hall and low­ered his voice. ‘I hap­pen to know that this map was con­fis­cat­ed by Mr Filch many years ago. Yes, I know it’s a map,’ he said, as Har­ry and Ron looked amazed. ‘I don’t want to know how it fell in­to your pos­ses­sion. I am, how­ev­er, as­tound­ed that you didn’t hand it in. Par­tic­ular­ly af­ter what hap­pened the last time a stu­dent left in­for­ma­tion about the cas­tle ly­ing around. And I can’t let you have it back, Har­ry’

Har­ry had ex­pect­ed that, and was too keen for ex­pla­na­tions to protest.

‘Why did Snape think I’d got it from the man­ufac­tur­ers?’

‘Be­cause …’ Lupin hes­itat­ed, ‘be­cause these map­mak­ers would have want­ed to lure you out of school. They’d think it ex­treme­ly en­ter­tain­ing.’

‘Do you know them?’ said Har­ry, im­pressed.

‘We’ve met,’ he said short­ly. He was look­ing at Har­ry more se­ri­ous­ly than ev­er be­fore.

‘Don’t ex­pect me to cov­er up for you again, Har­ry. I can­not make you take Sir­ius Black se­ri­ous­ly. But I would have thought that what you have heard when the De­men­tors draw near you would have had more of an ef­fect on you. Your par­ents gave their lives to keep you alive, Har­ry. A poor way to re­pay them – gam­bling their sac­ri­fice for a bag of mag­ic tricks.’

He walked away, leav­ing Har­ry feel­ing worse by far than he had at any point in Snape’s of­fice. Slow­ly, he and Ron mount­ed the mar­ble stair­case. As Har­ry passed the one-​eyed witch, he re­mem­bered the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak – it was still down there, but he didn’t dare go and get it.

‘It’s my fault,’ said Ron abrupt­ly. ‘I per­suad­ed you to go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done it –’

He broke off; they had reached the cor­ri­dor where the se­cu­ri­ty trolls were pac­ing, and Hermione was walk­ing to­wards them. One look at her face con­vinced Har­ry that she had heard what had hap­pened. His heart plum­met­ed – had she told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall?

‘Come to have a good gloat?’ said Ron sav­age­ly, as she stopped in front of them. ‘Or have you just been to tell on us?’

‘No,’ said Hermione. She was hold­ing a let­ter in her hands and her lip was trem­bling. ‘I just thought you ought to know … Ha­grid lost his case. Buck­beak is go­ing to be ex­ecut­ed.’





