CHAPTER FIFTEEN


The Quid­ditch Fi­nal



‘He – he sent me this,’ Hermione said, hold­ing out the let­ter.

Har­ry took it. The parch­ment was damp, and enor­mous teardrops had smudged the ink so bad­ly in places that it was very dif­fi­cult to read.



Dear Hermione,

We lost. I’m al­lowed to bring him back to Hog­warts. Ex­ecu­tion date to be fixed.

Beaky has en­joyed Lon­don.

I won’t for­get all the help you gave us.

Ha­grid



‘They can’t do this,’ said Har­ry. ‘They can’t. Buck­beak isn’t dan­ger­ous.’

‘Mal­foy’s dad’s fright­ened the Com­mit­tee in­to it,’ said Hermione, wip­ing her eyes. ‘You know what he’s like. They’re a bunch of dod­dery old fools, and they were scared. There’ll be an ap­peal, though, there al­ways is. On­ly I can’t see any hope … noth­ing will have changed.’

‘Yeah, it will,’ said Ron fierce­ly. ‘You won’t have to do all the work alone this time, Hermione. I’ll help.’

‘Oh, Ron!’

Hermione flung her arms around Ron’s neck and broke down com­plete­ly. Ron, look­ing quite ter­ri­fied, pat­ted her very awk­ward­ly on the top of the head. Fi­nal­ly, Hermione drew away.

‘Ron, I’m re­al­ly, re­al­ly sor­ry about Scab­bers …’ she sobbed.

‘Oh – well – he was old,’ said Ron, look­ing thor­ough­ly re­lieved that she had let go of him. ‘And he was a bit use­less. You nev­er know, Mum and Dad might get me an owl now.’

The safe­ty mea­sures im­posed on the stu­dents since Black’s sec­ond break-​in made it im­pos­si­ble for Har­ry, Ron and Hermione to go and vis­it Ha­grid in the evenings. Their on­ly chance of talk­ing to him was dur­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons.

He seemed numb with shock at the ver­dict.

‘’S’all my fault. Got all tongue-​tied. They was all sit­tin’ there in black robes an’ I kep’ drop­pin’ me notes and for­get­tin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, Hermione. An’ then Lu­cius Mal­foy stood up an’ said his bit, and the Com­mit­tee jus’ did ex­ac’ly what he told’em …’

‘There’s still the ap­peal!’ said Ron fierce­ly. ‘Don’t give up yet, we’re work­ing on it!’

They were walk­ing back up to the cas­tle with the rest of the class. Ahead they could see Mal­foy, who was walk­ing with Crabbe and Goyle, and kept look­ing back, laugh­ing de­ri­sive­ly.

‘’S’no good, Ron,’ said Ha­grid sad­ly as they reached the cas­tle steps. ‘That Com­mit­tee’s in Lu­cius Mal­foy’s pock­et. I’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Beaky’s time is the hap­pi­est he’s ev­er had. I owe him that …’

Ha­grid turned round and hur­ried back to­wards his cab­in, his face buried in his hand­ker­chief.

‘Look at him blub­ber!’

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle had been stand­ing just in­side the cas­tle doors, lis­ten­ing.

‘Have you ev­er seen any­thing quite as pa­thet­ic?’ said Mal­foy. ‘And he’s sup­posed to be our teach­er!’

Har­ry and Ron both made fu­ri­ous moves to­wards Mal­foy, but Hermione got there first – SMACK!

She had slapped Mal­foy around the face with all the strength she could muster. Mal­foy stag­gered. Har­ry, Ron, Crabbe and Goyle stood flab­ber­gast­ed as Hermione raised her hand again.

‘Don’t you dare call Ha­grid pa­thet­ic, you foul – you evil –’

‘Hermione!’ said Ron weak­ly, and he tried to grab her hand as she swung it back.

‘Get off, Ron!’

Hermione pulled out her wand. Mal­foy stepped back­wards. Crabbe and Goyle looked at him for in­struc­tions, thor­ough­ly be­wil­dered.

‘C’mon,’ Mal­foy mut­tered, and next mo­ment, all three of them had dis­ap­peared in­to the pas­sage­way to the dun­geons.

‘Hermione!’ Ron said again, sound­ing both stunned and im­pressed.

‘Har­ry, you’d bet­ter beat him in the Quid­ditch Fi­nal!’ Hermione said shril­ly. ‘You just bet­ter had, be­cause I can’t stand it if Slytherin win!’

‘We’re due in Charms,’ said Ron, still gog­gling at Hermione. ‘We’d bet­ter go.’

They hur­ried up the mar­ble stair­case to­wards Pro­fes­sor Flitwick’s class­room.

‘You’re late, boys!’ said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick re­prov­ing­ly, as Har­ry opened the class­room door. ‘Come along, quick­ly, wands out, we’re ex­per­iment­ing with Cheer­ing Charms to­day. We’ve al­ready di­vid­ed in­to pairs –’

Har­ry and Ron hur­ried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ron looked be­hind him.

‘Where’s Hermione gone?’

Har­ry looked around, too. Hermione hadn’t en­tered the class­room, yet Har­ry knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door.

‘That’s weird,’ said Har­ry, star­ing at Ron. ‘Maybe – maybe she went to the bath­room or some­thing?’

But Hermione didn’t turn up all les­son.

‘She could’ve done with a Cheer­ing Charm on her, too,’ said Ron, as the class left for lunch, all grin­ning broad­ly – the Cheer­ing Charms had left them with a feel­ing of great con­tent­ment.

Hermione wasn’t at lunch ei­ther. By the time they had fin­ished their ap­ple pie, the af­ter-​ef­fects of the Cheer­ing Charms were wear­ing off, and Har­ry and Ron had start­ed to get slight­ly wor­ried.

‘You don’t think Mal­foy did some­thing to her?’ Ron said anx­ious­ly, as they hur­ried up­stairs to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er.

They passed the se­cu­ri­ty trolls, gave the Fat La­dy the pass­word (‘Flib­ber­ti­gib­bet’) and scram­bled through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room.

Hermione was sit­ting at a ta­ble, fast asleep, her head rest­ing on an open Arith­man­cy book. They went to sit down ei­ther side of her. Har­ry prod­ded her awake.

‘Wh-​what?’ said Hermione, wak­ing with a start, and star­ing wild­ly around. ‘Is it time to go? W-​which les­son have we got now?’

‘Div­ina­tion, but it’s not for an­oth­er twen­ty min­utes,’ said Har­ry. ‘Hermione, why didn’t you come to Charms?’

‘What? Oh no!’ Hermione squeaked. ‘I for­got to go to Charms!’

‘But how could you for­get?’ said Har­ry. ‘You were with us till we were right out­side the class­room!’

‘I don’t be­lieve it!’ Hermione wailed. ‘Was Pro­fes­sor Flitwick an­gry? Oh, it was Mal­foy, I was think­ing about him and I lost track of things!’

‘You know what, Hermione?’ said Ron, look­ing down at the enor­mous Arith­man­cy book Hermione had been us­ing as a pil­low. ‘I reck­on you’re crack­ing up. You’re try­ing to do too much.’

‘No, I’m not!’ said Hermione, brush­ing her hair out of her eyes and star­ing hope­less­ly around for her bag. ‘I just made a mis­take, that’s all! I’d bet­ter go and see Pro­fes­sor Flitwick and say sor­ry … I’ll see you in Div­ina­tion!’

Hermione joined them at the foot of the lad­der to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s class­room twen­ty min­utes lat­er, look­ing ex­treme­ly ha­rassed.

‘I can’t be­lieve I missed Cheer­ing Charms! And I bet they come up in our ex­ams. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick hint­ed they might!’

To­geth­er they climbed the lad­der in­to the dim, sti­fling tow­er room. Glow­ing on ev­ery lit­tle ta­ble was a crys­tal ball full of pearly white mist. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat down to­geth­er at the same rick­ety ta­ble.

‘I thought we weren’t start­ing crys­tal balls un­til next term,’ Ron mut­tered, cast­ing a wary eye around for Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in case she was lurk­ing near­by.

‘Don’t com­plain, this means we’ve fin­ished palm­istry,’ Har­ry mut­tered back. ‘I was get­ting sick of her flinch­ing ev­ery time she looked at my hands.’

‘Good day to you!’ said the fa­mil­iar, misty voice, and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney made her usu­al dra­mat­ic en­trance out of the shad­ows. Par­vati and Laven­der quiv­ered with ex­cite­ment, their faces lit by the milky glow of their crys­tal ball.

‘I have de­cid­ed to in­tro­duce the crys­tal ball a lit­tle ear­li­er than I had planned,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, seat­ing her­self with her back to the fire and gaz­ing around. ‘The fates have in­formed me that your ex­am­ina­tion in June will con­cern the Orb, and I am anx­ious to give you suf­fi­cient prac­tice.’

Hermione snort­ed. ‘Well, hon­est­ly … ‘the fates have in­formed her’ … who sets the ex­am? She does! What an amaz­ing pre­dic­tion!’ she said, not trou­bling to keep her voice low.

It was hard to tell whether Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had heard them, as her face was hid­den in shad­ow. She con­tin­ued, how­ev­er, as though she had not.

‘Crys­tal-​gaz­ing is a par­tic­ular­ly re­fined art,’ she said dream­ily. ‘I do not ex­pect any of you to See when first you peer in­to the Orb’s in­fi­nite depths. We shall start by prac­tis­ing re­lax­ing the con­scious mind and ex­ter­nal eyes’ – Ron be­gan to snig­ger un­con­trol­lably, and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to sti­fle the noise – ‘so as to clear the In­ner Eye and the su­per­con­scious. Per­haps, if we are lucky, some of you will See be­fore the end of the class.’

And so they be­gan. Har­ry, at least, felt ex­treme­ly fool­ish, star­ing blankly at the crys­tal ball, try­ing to keep his mind emp­ty when thoughts such as ‘this is stupid’ kept drift­ing across it. It didn’t help that Ron kept break­ing in­to silent gig­gles and Hermione kept tut­ting.

‘Seen any­thing yet?’ Har­ry asked them, af­ter a quar­ter of an hour’s qui­et crys­tal-​gaz­ing.

‘Yeah, there’s a burn on this ta­ble,’ said Ron, point­ing. ‘Some­one’s spilled their can­dle.’

‘This is such a waste of time,’ Hermione hissed. ‘I could be prac­tis­ing some­thing use­ful. I could be catch­ing up on Cheer­ing Charms –’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney rus­tled past.

‘Would any­one like me to help them in­ter­pret the shad­owy por­tents with­in their Orb?’ she mur­mured over the clink­ing of her ban­gles.

‘I don’t need help,’ Ron whis­pered. ‘It’s ob­vi­ous what this means. There’s go­ing to be loads of fog tonight.’

Both Har­ry and Hermione burst out laugh­ing.

‘Now, re­al­ly!’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, as ev­ery­one’s heads turned in their di­rec­tion. Par­vati and Laven­der were look­ing scan­dalised. ‘You are dis­turb­ing the clair­voy­ant vi­bra­tions!’ She ap­proached their ta­ble and peered in­to their crys­tal ball. Har­ry felt his heart sink­ing. He was sure he knew what was com­ing …

‘There is some­thing here!’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney whis­pered, low­er­ing her face to the ball, so that it was re­flect­ed twice in her huge glass­es. ‘Some­thing mov­ing … but what is it?’

Har­ry was pre­pared to bet ev­ery­thing he owned, in­clud­ing his Fire­bolt, that it wasn’t good news, what­ev­er it was. And sure enough …

‘My dear …’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney breathed, gaz­ing up at Har­ry. ‘It is here, plain­er than ev­er be­fore … my dear, stalk­ing to­wards you, grow­ing ev­er clos­er … the Gr –’

‘Oh, for good­ness’ sake!’ said Hermione, loud­ly. ‘Not that ridicu­lous Grim again!’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney raised her enor­mous eyes to Hermione’s face. Par­vati whis­pered some­thing to Laven­der, and they both glared at Hermione, too. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stood up, sur­vey­ing Hermione with un­mis­take­able anger.

‘I am sor­ry to say that from the mo­ment you have ar­rived in this class, my dear, it has been ap­par­ent that you do not have what the no­ble art of Div­ina­tion re­quires. In­deed, I don’t re­mem­ber ev­er meet­ing a stu­dent whose mind was so hope­less­ly Mun­dane.’

There was a mo­ment’s si­lence. Then –

‘Fine!’ said Hermione sud­den­ly, get­ting up and cram­ming Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture back in­to her bag. ‘Fine!’ she re­peat­ed, swing­ing the bag over her shoul­der and al­most knock­ing Ron off his chair. ‘I give up! I’m leav­ing!’

And to the whole class’s amaze­ment, Hermione strode over to the trap­door, kicked it open, and climbed down the lad­der out of sight.

It took a few min­utes for the class to set­tle down again. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed to have for­got­ten all about the Grim. She turned abrupt­ly from Har­ry and Ron’s ta­ble, breath­ing rather heav­ily as she tugged her gauzy shawl more close­ly to her.

‘Ooooo!’ said Laven­der sud­den­ly, mak­ing ev­ery­one start. ‘Oooooo, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, I’ve just re­mem­bered! You saw her leav­ing, didn’t you? Didn’t you, Pro­fes­sor? ‘Around East­er, one of our num­ber will leave us for ev­er!’ You said it ages ago, Pro­fes­sor!’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile.

‘Yes, my dear, I did in­deed know that Miss Granger would be leav­ing us. One hopes, how­ev­er, that one might have mis­tak­en the Signs … the In­ner Eye can be a bur­den, you know …’

Laven­der and Par­vati looked deeply im­pressed, and moved over so that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney could join their ta­ble in­stead.

‘Some day Hermione’s hav­ing, eh?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, look­ing awed.

‘Yeah …’

Har­ry glanced in­to the crys­tal ball, but saw noth­ing but swirling white mist. Had Pro­fes­sor Trelawney re­al­ly seen the Grim again? Would he? The last thing he need­ed was an­oth­er near-​fa­tal ac­ci­dent, with the Quid­ditch fi­nal draw­ing ev­er near­er.

*

The East­er hol­idays were not ex­act­ly re­lax­ing. The third-​years had nev­er had so much home­work. Neville Long­bot­tom seemed close to a ner­vous col­lapse, and he wasn’t the on­ly one.

‘Call this a hol­iday!’ Sea­mus Finni­gan roared at the com­mon room one af­ter­noon. ‘The ex­ams are ages away, what’re they play­ing at?’

But no­body had as much to do as Hermione. Even with­out Div­ina­tion, she was tak­ing more sub­jects than any­body else. She was usu­al­ly last to leave the com­mon room at night, first to ar­rive at the li­brary next morn­ing; she had shad­ows like Lupin’s un­der her eyes, and seemed con­stant­ly close to tears.

Ron had tak­en over re­spon­si­bil­ity for Buck­beak’s ap­peal. When he wasn’t do­ing his own work, he was por­ing over enor­mous­ly thick vol­umes with names like The Hand­book of Hip­pogriff Psy­chol­ogy and Fowl or Foul? A Study of Hip­pogriff Bru­tal­ity. He was so ab­sorbed, he even for­got to be hor­ri­ble to Crook­shanks.

Har­ry, mean­while, had to fit in his home­work around Quid­ditch prac­tice ev­ery day, not to men­tion end­less dis­cus­sions of tac­tics with Wood. The Gryffind­or-​Slytherin match would take place on the first Sat­ur­day af­ter the East­er hol­idays. Slytherin were lead­ing the tour­na­ment by ex­act­ly two hun­dred points. This meant (as Wood con­stant­ly re­mind­ed his team) that they need­ed to win the match by more than that amount to win the Cup. It al­so meant that the bur­den of win­ning fell large­ly on Har­ry, be­cause cap­tur­ing the Snitch was worth one hun­dred and fifty points.

‘So you must on­ly catch it if we’re more than fifty points up,’ Wood told Har­ry con­stant­ly. ‘On­ly if we’re more than fifty points up, Har­ry, or we win the match but lose the Cup. You’ve got that, haven’t you? You must on­ly catch the Snitch if we’re –’

‘I KNOW, OLIV­ER!’ Har­ry yelled.

The whole of Gryffind­or house was ob­sessed with the com­ing match. Gryffind­or hadn’t won the Quid­ditch Cup since the leg­endary Char­lie Weasley (Ron’s sec­ond-​old­est broth­er) had been Seek­er. But Har­ry doubt­ed whether any of them, even Wood, want­ed to win as much as he did. The en­mi­ty be­tween Har­ry and Mal­foy was at its high­est point ev­er. Mal­foy was still smart­ing about the mud-​throw­ing in­ci­dent in Hogsmeade, and even more fu­ri­ous that Har­ry had some­how wormed his way out of pun­ish­ment. Har­ry hadn’t for­got­ten Mal­foy’s at­tempt to sab­otage him in the match against Raven­claw, but it was the mat­ter of Buck­beak that made him most de­ter­mined to beat Mal­foy in front of the en­tire school.

Nev­er, in any­one’s mem­ory, had a match ap­proached in such a high­ly charged at­mo­sphere. By the time the hol­idays were over, ten­sion be­tween the two teams and their hous­es was at break­ing-​point. A num­ber of small scuf­fles broke out in the cor­ri­dors, cul­mi­nat­ing in a nasty in­ci­dent in which a Gryffind­or fourth-​year and a Slytherin sixth-​year end­ed up in the hos­pi­tal wing with leeks sprout­ing out of their ears.

Har­ry was hav­ing a par­tic­ular­ly bad time of it. He couldn’t walk to class with­out Slytherins stick­ing out their legs and try­ing to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle kept pop­ping up wher­ev­er he went, and slouch­ing away look­ing dis­ap­point­ed when they saw him sur­round­ed by peo­ple. Wood had giv­en in­struc­tions that Har­ry should be ac­com­pa­nied ev­ery­where, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of ac­tion. The whole of Gryffind­or house took up the chal­lenge en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, so that it was im­pos­si­ble for Har­ry to get to class­es on time be­cause he was sur­round­ed by a vast, chat­ter­ing crowd. Har­ry was more con­cerned for his Fire­bolt’s safe­ty than his own. When he wasn’t fly­ing it, he locked it se­cure­ly in his trunk, and fre­quent­ly dashed back up to Gryffind­or Tow­er at break-​times to check that it was still there.

*

All usu­al pur­suits were aban­doned in the Gryffind­or com­mon room the night be­fore the match. Even Hermione had put down her books.

‘I can’t work, I can’t con­cen­trate,’ she said ner­vous­ly.

There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George Weasley were deal­ing with the pres­sure by be­ing loud­er and more ex­uber­ant than ev­er. Oliv­er Wood was crouched over a mod­el of a Quid­ditch pitch in the cor­ner, prod­ding lit­tle fig­ures across it with his wand and mut­ter­ing to him­self. An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie were laugh­ing at Fred and George’s jokes. Har­ry was sit­ting with Ron and Hermione, re­moved from the cen­tre of things, try­ing not to think about the next day, be­cause ev­ery time he did, he had the hor­ri­ble sen­sa­tion that some­thing very large was fight­ing to get out of his stom­ach.

‘You’re go­ing to be fine,’ Hermione told him, though she looked pos­itive­ly ter­ri­fied.

‘You’ve got a Fire­bolt!’ said Ron.

‘Yeah …’ said Har­ry, his stom­ach writhing.

It came as a re­lief when Wood sud­den­ly stood up and yelled, ‘Team! Bed!’

*

Har­ry slept bad­ly. First he dreamed that he had over­slept, and that Wood was yelling, ‘Where were you? We had to use Neville in­stead!’ Then he dreamed that Mal­foy and the rest of the Slytherin team ar­rived for the match rid­ing drag­ons. He was fly­ing at break­neck speed, try­ing to avoid a spurt of flames from Mal­foy’s steed’s mouth, when he re­alised he had for­got­ten his Fire­bolt. He fell through the air and woke with a start.

It was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry re­mem­bered that the match hadn’t tak­en place yet, that he was safe in bed and that the Slytherin team def­inite­ly wouldn’t be al­lowed to play on drag­ons. He was feel­ing very thirsty. As qui­et­ly as he could, he got out of his four-​poster and went to pour him­self some wa­ter from the sil­ver jug be­neath the win­dow.

The grounds were still and qui­et. No breath of wind dis­turbed the tree­tops in the For­bid­den For­est; the Whomp­ing Wil­low was mo­tion­less and in­no­cent-​look­ing. It looked as though con­di­tions for the match would be per­fect.

Har­ry set down his gob­let and was about to turn back to his bed when some­thing caught his eye. An an­imal of some kind was prowl­ing across the sil­very lawn.

Har­ry dashed to his bed­side ta­ble, snatched up his glass­es and put them on, then hur­ried back to the win­dow. It couldn’t be the Grim – not now – not right be­fore the match –

He peered out at the grounds again and, af­ter a minute’s fran­tic search­ing, spot­ted it. It was skirt­ing the edge of the For­est now … it wasn’t the Grim at all … it was a cat … Har­ry clutched the win­dow-​ledge in re­lief as he recog­nised the bot­tle-​brush tail. It was on­ly Crook­shanks …

Or was it on­ly Crook­shanks? Har­ry squint­ed, press­ing his nose flat against the glass. Crook­shanks seemed to have come to a halt. Har­ry was sure he could see some­thing else mov­ing in the shad­ow of the trees, too.

And next mo­ment, it had emerged: a gi­gan­tic, shag­gy black dog, mov­ing stealthi­ly across the lawn, Crook­shanks trot­ting at its side. Har­ry stared. What did this mean? If Crook­shanks could see the dog as well, how could it be an omen of Har­ry’s death?

‘Ron!’ Har­ry hissed. ‘Ron! Wake up!’

‘Huh?’

‘I need you to tell me if you can see some­thing!’

‘’S’all dark, Har­ry’ Ron mut­tered thick­ly. ‘What’re you on about?’

‘Down here –’

Har­ry looked quick­ly back out of the win­dow.

Crook­shanks and the dog had van­ished. Har­ry climbed on­to the win­dow-​sill to look right down in­to the shad­ows of the cas­tle, but they weren’t there. Where had they gone?

A loud snore told him Ron had fall­en asleep again.

*

Har­ry and the rest of the Gryffind­or team en­tered the Great Hall next day to enor­mous ap­plause. Har­ry couldn’t help grin­ning broad­ly as he saw that both the Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff ta­bles were clap­ping them, too. The Slytherin ta­ble hissed loud­ly as they passed. Har­ry no­ticed that Mal­foy looked even paler than usu­al.

Wood spent the whole of break­fast urg­ing his team to eat, while touch­ing noth­ing him­self. Then he hur­ried them off to the pitch be­fore any­one else had fin­ished, so they could get an idea of the con­di­tions. As they left the Great Hall, ev­ery­one ap­plaud­ed again.

‘Good luck, Har­ry!’ called Cho Chang. Har­ry felt him­self blush­ing.

‘OK … no wind to speak of … sun’s a bit bright, that could im­pair your vi­sion, watch out for it … ground’s fair­ly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kick-​off …’

Wood paced the pitch, star­ing around with the team be­hind him. Fi­nal­ly they saw the front doors of the cas­tle open in the dis­tance, and the rest of the school spill on­to the lawn.

‘Chang­ing rooms,’ said Wood terse­ly.

None of them spoke as they changed in­to their scar­let robes. Har­ry won­dered if they were feel­ing like he was: as though he’d eat­en some­thing ex­treme­ly wrig­gly for break­fast. In what seemed like no time at all, Wood was say­ing, ‘OK, it’s time, let’s go …’

They walked out on­to the pitch to a tidal wave of noise. Three-​quar­ters of the crowd were wear­ing scar­let rosettes, wav­ing scar­let flags with the Gryffind­or li­on up­on them or bran­dish­ing ban­ners with slo­gans such as ‘GO GRYFFIND­OR!’ and ‘LI­ONS FOR THE CUP!’. Be­hind the Slytherin goal­posts, how­ev­er, two hun­dred peo­ple were wear­ing green; the sil­ver ser­pent of Slytherin glit­tered on their flags, and Pro­fes­sor Snape sat in the very front row, wear­ing green like ev­ery­one else, and a very grim smile.

‘And here are the Gryffind­ors!’ yelled Lee Jor­dan, who was act­ing as com­men­ta­tor as usu­al. ‘Pot­ter, Bell, John­son, Spin­net, Weasley, Weasley and Wood. Wide­ly ac­knowl­edged as the best side Hog­warts has seen in a good few years –’

Lee’s com­ments were drowned by a tide of ‘boos’ from the Slytherin end.

‘And here come the Slytherin team, led by cap­tain Flint. He’s made some changes in the line-​up and seems to be go­ing for size rather than skill –’

More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Har­ry, how­ev­er, thought Lee had a point. Mal­foy was eas­ily the small­est per­son on the Slytherin team; the rest of them were enor­mous.

‘Cap­tains, shake hands!’ said Madam Hooch.

Flint and Wood ap­proached each oth­er and grasped each oth­er’s hands very tight­ly; it looked as though each was try­ing to break the oth­er’s fin­gers.

‘Mount your brooms!’ said Madam Hooch. ‘Three … two … one …’

The sound of her whis­tle was lost in the roar from the crowd as four­teen brooms rose in­to the air. Har­ry felt his hair fly back off his fore­head; his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw Mal­foy on his tail, and sped off in search of the Snitch.

‘And it’s Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, Ali­cia Spin­net of Gryffind­or with the Quaf­fle, head­ing straight for the Slytherin goal­posts, look­ing good, Ali­cia! Argh, no – Quaf­fle in­ter­cept­ed by War­ring­ton, War­ring­ton of Slytherin tear­ing up the pitch – WHAM! – nice Bludger work there by George Weasley, War­ring­ton drops the Quaf­fle, it’s caught by – John­son, Gryffind­or back in pos­ses­sion, come on, An­geli­na – nice swerve round Mon­tague – duck, An­geli­na, that’s a Bludger! – SHE SCORES! TEN–ZE­RO TO GRYFFIND­OR!’

An­geli­na punched the air as she soared round the end of the pitch; the sea of scar­let be­low was scream­ing its de­light –

‘OUCH!’

An­geli­na was near­ly thrown from her broom as Mar­cus Flint went smash­ing in­to her.

‘Sor­ry!’ said Flint, as the crowd be­low booed. ‘Sor­ry didn’t see her!’

Next mo­ment, Fred Weasley had chucked his Beat­er’s club at the back of Flint’s head. Flint’s nose smashed in­to the han­dle of his broom and be­gan to bleed.

‘That will do!’ shrieked Madam Hooch, zoom­ing be­tween them. ‘Penal­ty to Gryffind­or for an un­pro­voked at­tack on their Chas­er! Penal­ty to Slytherin for de­lib­er­ate dam­age to their Chas­er!’

‘Come off it, Miss!’ howled Fred, but Madam Hooch blew her whis­tle and Ali­cia flew for­ward to take the penal­ty.

‘Come on, Ali­cia!’ yelled Lee in­to the si­lence that had de­scend­ed on the crowd. ‘YES! SHE’S BEAT­EN THE KEEP­ER! TWEN­TY–ZE­RO TO GRYFFIND­OR!’

Har­ry turned the Fire­bolt sharply to watch Flint, still bleed­ing freely, fly for­wards to take the Slytherin penal­ty. Wood was hov­er­ing in front of the Gryffind­or goal­posts, his jaw clenched.

‘Course, Wood’s a su­perb Keep­er!’ Lee Jor­dan told the crowd, as Flint wait­ed for Madam Hooch’s whis­tle. ‘Su­perb! Very dif­fi­cult to pass – very dif­fi­cult in­deed – YES! I DON’T BE­LIEVE IT! HE’S SAVED IT!’

Re­lieved, Har­ry zoomed away, gaz­ing around for the Snitch, but still mak­ing sure he caught ev­ery word of Lee’s com­men­tary. It was es­sen­tial that he hold Mal­foy off the Snitch un­til Gryffind­or was more than fifty points up …

‘Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, no, Slytherin in pos­ses­sion – no! – Gryffind­or back in pos­ses­sion and it’s Katie Bell, Katie Bell for Gryffind­or with the Quaf­fle, she’s streak­ing up the pitch – THAT WAS DE­LIB­ER­ATE!’

Mon­tague, a Slytherin Chas­er, had swerved in front of Katie, and in­stead of seiz­ing the Quaf­fle, had grabbed her head. Katie cartwheeled in the air, man­aged to stay on her broom but dropped the Quaf­fle.

Madam Hooch’s whis­tle rang out again as she soared over to Mon­tague and be­gan shout­ing at him. A minute lat­er, Katie had put an­oth­er penal­ty past the Slytherin Keep­er.

‘THIR­TY–ZE­RO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEAT­ING –’

‘Jor­dan, if you can’t com­men­tate in an un­bi­ased way –!’

‘I’m telling it like it is, Pro­fes­sor!’

Har­ry felt a huge jolt of ex­cite­ment. He had seen the Snitch – it was shim­mer­ing at the foot of one of the Gryffind­or goal­posts – but he mustn’t catch it yet. And if Mal­foy saw it …

Fak­ing a look of sud­den con­cen­tra­tion, Har­ry pulled his Fire­bolt round and sped off to­wards the Slytherin end. It worked. Mal­foy went har­ing af­ter him, clear­ly think­ing Har­ry had seen the Snitch there …

WHOOSH.

One of the Bludgers came streak­ing past Har­ry’s right ear, hit by the gi­gan­tic Slytherin Beat­er, Der­rick. Next mo­ment –

WHOOSH.

The sec­ond Bludger had grazed Har­ry’s el­bow. The oth­er Beat­er, Bole, was clos­ing in.

Har­ry had a fleet­ing glimpse of Bole and Der­rick zoom­ing to­wards him, clubs raised –

He turned the Fire­bolt up­wards at the last sec­ond, and Bole and Der­rick col­lid­ed with a sick­en­ing crunch.

‘Ha haaa!’ yelled Lee Jor­dan, as the Slytherin Beat­ers lurched away from each oth­er, clutch­ing their heads. ‘Too bad, boys! You’ll need to get up ear­li­er than that to beat a Fire­bolt! And it’s Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion again, as John­son takes the Quaf­fle – Flint along­side her – poke him in the eye, An­geli­na! – it was a joke, Pro­fes­sor, it was a joke – oh, no – Flint in pos­ses­sion, Flint fly­ing to­wards the Gryffind­or goal­posts, come on, now, Wood, save –!’

But Flint had scored; there was an erup­tion of cheers from the Slytherin end and Lee swore so bad­ly that Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tried to tug the mag­ical mega­phone away from him.

‘Sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor, sor­ry! Won’t hap­pen again! So, Gryffind­or in the lead, thir­ty points to ten, and Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion –’

It was turn­ing in­to the dirt­iest match Har­ry had ev­er played in. En­raged that Gryffind­or had tak­en such an ear­ly lead, the Slytherins were rapid­ly re­sort­ing to any means to take the Quaf­fle. Bole hit Ali­cia with his club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger. George Weasley el­bowed Bole in the face in re­tal­ia­tion. Madam Hooch award­ed both teams penal­ties, and Wood pulled off an­oth­er spec­tac­ular save, mak­ing the score forty-​ten to Gryffind­or.

The Snitch had dis­ap­peared again. Mal­foy was still keep­ing close to Har­ry as he soared over the match, look­ing around for it – once Gryffind­or were fifty points ahead …

Katie scored. Fifty–ten. Fred and George Weasley were swoop­ing around her, clubs raised, in case any of the Slytherins were think­ing of re­venge. Bole and Der­rick took ad­van­tage of Fred and George’s ab­sence to aim both Bludgers at Wood; they caught him in the stom­ach, one af­ter the oth­er, and he rolled over in the air, clutch­ing his broom, com­plete­ly wind­ed.

Madam Hooch was be­side her­self.

‘You do not at­tack the Keep­er un­less the Quaf­fle is with­in the scor­ing area!’ she shrieked at Bole and Der­rick. ‘Gryffind­or penal­ty!’

And An­geli­na scored. Six­ty–ten. Mo­ments lat­er, Fred Weasley pelt­ed a Bludger at War­ring­ton, knock­ing the Quaf­fle out of his hands; Ali­cia seized it and put it through the Slytherin goal: sev­en­ty–ten.

The Gryffind­or crowd be­low were scream­ing them­selves hoarse – Gryffind­or were six­ty points in the lead, and if Har­ry caught the Snitch now, the Cup was theirs. Har­ry could al­most feel hun­dreds of eyes fol­low­ing him as he soared around the pitch, high above the rest of the game, with Mal­foy speed­ing along be­hind him.

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twen­ty feet above him.

Har­ry put on a huge burst of speed, the wind roar­ing in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but sud­den­ly, the Fire­bolt was slow­ing down –

Hor­ri­fied, he looked around. Mal­foy had thrown him­self for­ward, grabbed hold of the Fire­bolt’s tail and was pulling it back.

‘You –’

Har­ry was an­gry enough to hit Mal­foy, but he couldn’t reach. Mal­foy was pant­ing with the ef­fort of hold­ing on­to the Fire­bolt, but his eyes were sparkling ma­li­cious­ly. He had achieved what he’d want­ed – the Snitch had dis­ap­peared again.

‘Penal­ty! Penal­ty to Gryffind­or! I’ve nev­er seen such tac­tics!’ Madam Hooch screeched, shoot­ing up to where Mal­foy was slid­ing back on­to his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and One.

‘YOU CHEAT­ING SCUM!’ Lee Jor­dan was howl­ing in­to the mega­phone, danc­ing out of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s reach. ‘YOU FILTHY, CHEAT­ING B –’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall didn’t even both­er to tell him off. She was ac­tu­al­ly shak­ing her fist in Mal­foy’s di­rec­tion; her hat had fall­en off, and she, too, was shout­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

Ali­cia took Gryffind­or’s penal­ty, but she was so an­gry she missed by sev­er­al feet. The Gryffind­or team was los­ing con­cen­tra­tion and the Slytherins, de­light­ed by Mal­foy’s foul on Har­ry, were be­ing spurred on to greater heights.

‘Slytherin in pos­ses­sion, Slytherin head­ing for goal – Mon­tague scores –’ Lee groaned. ‘Sev­en­ty–twen­ty to Gryffind­or …’

Har­ry was now mark­ing Mal­foy so close­ly their knees kept hit­ting each oth­er. Har­ry wasn’t go­ing to let Mal­foy any­where near the Snitch …

‘Get out of it, Pot­ter!’ Mal­foy yelled in frus­tra­tion, as he tried to turn and found Har­ry block­ing him.

‘An­geli­na John­son gets the Quaf­fle for Gryffind­or, come on, An­geli­na, COME ON!’

Har­ry looked round. Ev­ery sin­gle Slytherin play­er apart from Mal­foy, even the Slytherin Keep­er, was streak­ing up the pitch to­wards An­geli­na – they were all go­ing to block her –

Har­ry wheeled the Fire­bolt about, bent so low he was ly­ing flat along the han­dle and kicked it for­wards. Like a bul­let, he shot to­wards the Slytherins.

‘AAAAAAAR­RRGH!’

They scat­tered as the Fire­bolt zoomed to­wards them; An­geli­na’s way was clear.

‘SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffind­or lead by eighty points to twen­ty!’

Har­ry, who had al­most pelt­ed head­long in­to the stands, skid­ded to a halt in mid-​air, re­versed and zoomed back in­to the mid­dle of the pitch.

And then he saw some­thing to make his heart stand still. Mal­foy was div­ing, a look of tri­umph on his face – there, a few feet above the grass be­low, was a tiny, gold­en glim­mer.

Har­ry urged the Fire­bolt down­wards but Mal­foy was miles ahead.

‘Go! Go! Go!’ Har­ry urged his broom. They were gain­ing on Mal­foy … Har­ry flat­tened him­self to the broom han­dle as Bole sent a Bludger at him … he was at Mal­foy’s an­kles … he was lev­el –

Har­ry threw him­self for­wards, tak­ing both hands off his broom. He knocked Mal­foy’s arm out of the way and –

‘YES!’

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the sta­di­um ex­plod­ed. Har­ry soared above the crowd, an odd ring­ing in his ears. The tiny gold­en ball was held tight in his fist, beat­ing its wings hope­less­ly against his fin­gers.

Then Wood was speed­ing to­wards him, half-​blind­ed by tears; he seized Har­ry around the neck and sobbed un­re­strained­ly in­to his shoul­der. Har­ry felt two large thumps as Fred and George hit them; then An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie’s voic­es, ‘We’ve won the Cup! We’ve won the Cup!’ Tan­gled to­geth­er in a many-​armed hug, the Gryffind­or team sank, yelling hoarse­ly, back to earth.

Wave up­on wave of crim­son sup­port­ers was pour­ing over the bar­ri­ers on­to the pitch. Hands were rain­ing down on their backs. Har­ry had a con­fused im­pres­sion of noise and bod­ies press­ing in on him. Then he, and the rest of the team, were hoist­ed on­to the shoul­ders of the crowd. Thrust in­to the light, he saw Ha­grid, plas­tered with crim­son rosettes – ‘Yeh beat ’em, Har­ry, yeh beat ’em! Wait till I tell Buck­beak!’ There was Per­cy, jump­ing up and down like a ma­ni­ac, all dig­ni­ty for­got­ten. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was sob­bing hard­er even than Wood, wip­ing her eyes with an enor­mous Gryffind­or flag; and there, fight­ing their way to­wards Har­ry, were Ron and Hermione. Words failed them. They sim­ply beamed, as Har­ry was borne to­wards the stands, where Dum­ble­dore stood wait­ing with the enor­mous Quid­ditch Cup.

If on­ly there had been a De­men­tor around … As a sob­bing Wood passed Har­ry the Cup, as he lift­ed it in­to the air, Har­ry felt he could have pro­duced the world’s best Pa­tronus.





