CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


Cat, Rat and Dog



Har­ry’s mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood trans­fixed with hor­ror un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. The very last rays of the set­ting sun were cast­ing a bloody light over the long-​shad­owed grounds. Then, be­hind them, they heard a wild howl­ing.

‘Ha­grid,’ Har­ry mut­tered. With­out think­ing about what he was do­ing, he made to turn back, but both Ron and Hermione seized his arms.

‘We can’t,’ said Ron, who was pa­per white. ‘He’ll be in worse trou­ble if they know we’ve been to see him …’

Hermione’s breath­ing was shal­low and un­even.

‘How – could – they?’ she choked. ‘How could they?’

‘Come on,’ said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chat­ter­ing.

They set off back to­wards the cas­tle, walk­ing slow­ly to keep them­selves hid­den un­der the Cloak. Light was fad­ing fast now. By the time they reached open ground, dark­ness was set­tling like a spell around them.

‘Scab­bers, keep still,’ Ron hissed, clamp­ing his hand over his chest. The rat was wrig­gling mad­ly. Ron came to a sud­den halt, try­ing to force Scab­bers deep­er in­to his pock­et. ‘What’s the mat­ter with you, you stupid rat? Stay still – OUCH! He bit me!’

‘Ron, be qui­et!’ Hermione whis­pered ur­gent­ly. ‘Fudge’ll be out here in a minute –’

‘He won’t – stay – put –’

Scab­bers was plain­ly ter­ri­fied. He was writhing with all his might, try­ing to break free of Ron’s grip.

‘What’s the mat­ter with him?’

But Har­ry had just seen – slink­ing to­wards them, his body low to the ground, wide yel­low eyes glint­ing eeri­ly in the dark­ness – Crook­shanks. Whether he could see them, or was fol­low­ing the sound of Scab­bers’s squeaks, Har­ry couldn’t tell.

‘Crook­shanks!’ Hermione moaned. ‘No, go away, Crook­shanks! Go away!’

But the cat was get­ting near­er –

‘Scab­bers – NO!’

Too late – the rat had slipped be­tween Ron’s clutch­ing fin­gers, hit the ground and scam­pered away. In one bound, Crook­shanks sprang af­ter him, and be­fore Har­ry or Hermione could stop him, Ron had thrown the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak off him­self and pelt­ed away in­to the dark­ness.

‘Ron!’ Hermione moaned.

She and Har­ry looked at each oth­er, then fol­lowed at a sprint; it was im­pos­si­ble to run full out un­der the Cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed be­hind them like a ban­ner as they hur­tled af­ter Ron; they could hear his feet thun­der­ing along ahead, and his shouts at Crook­shanks.

‘Get away from him – get away – Scab­bers, come here –’

There was a loud thud.

‘Gotcha! Get off, you stink­ing cat –’

Har­ry and Hermione al­most fell over Ron; they skid­ded to a stop right in front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Scab­bers was back in his pock­et; he had both hands held tight over the quiv­er­ing lump.

‘Ron – come on – back un­der the Cloak –’ Hermione pant­ed. ‘Dum­ble­dore – the Min­is­ter – they’ll be com­ing back out in a minute –’

But be­fore they could cov­er them­selves again, be­fore they could even catch their breath, they heard the soft pound­ing of gi­gan­tic paws. Some­thing was bound­ing to­wards them out of the dark – an enor­mous, pale-​eyed, jet-​black dog.

Har­ry reached for his wand, but too late – the dog had made an enor­mous leap and its front paws hit him on the chest. He keeled over back­wards in a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch-​long teeth –

But the force of its leap had car­ried it too far; it rolled off him; dazed, feel­ing as though his ribs were bro­ken, Har­ry tried to stand up; he could hear it growl­ing as it skid­ded around for a new at­tack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back to­wards them, he pushed Har­ry aside; the dog’s jaws fas­tened in­stead around Ron’s out­stretched arm. Har­ry lunged at it and seized a hand­ful of the brute’s hair, but it was drag­ging Ron away as eas­ily as if he were a rag-​doll –

Then, out of nowhere, some­thing hit Har­ry so hard across the face he was knocked off his feet again. He heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall, too. Har­ry groped for his wand, blink­ing blood out of his eyes –

‘Lu­mos!’ he whis­pered.

The wand-​light showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased Scab­bers in­to the shad­ow of the Whomp­ing Wil­low and its branch­es were creak­ing as though in a high wind, whip­ping back­wards and for­wards to stop them go­ing near­er.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, drag­ging Ron back­wards in­to a large gap in the roots – Ron was fight­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, but his head and tor­so were slip­ping out of sight –

‘Ron!’ Har­ry shout­ed, try­ing to fol­low, but a heavy branch whipped lethal­ly through the air and he was forced back­wards again.

All they could see now was one of Ron’s legs, which he had hooked around a root in an ef­fort to stop the dog pulling him fur­ther un­der­ground. Then a hor­ri­ble crack cut the air like a gun­shot; Ron’s leg had bro­ken, and next sec­ond, his foot had van­ished from sight.

‘Har­ry – we’ve got to go for help –’ Hermione cried; she was bleed­ing too; the Wil­low had cut her across the shoul­der.

‘No! That thing’s big enough to eat him, we haven’t got time –’

‘We’re nev­er go­ing to get through with­out help –’

An­oth­er branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuck­les.

‘If that dog can get in, we can,’ Har­ry pant­ed, dart­ing here and there, try­ing to find a way through the vi­cious, swish­ing branch­es, but he couldn’t get an inch near­er to the tree-​roots with­out be­ing in range of the tree’s blows.

‘Oh, help, help,’ Hermione whis­pered fran­ti­cal­ly, danc­ing un­cer­tain­ly on the spot, ‘please …’

Crook­shanks dart­ed for­wards. He slith­ered be­tween the bat­ter­ing branch­es like a snake and placed his front paws up­on a knot on the trunk.

Abrupt­ly, as though the tree had been turned to mar­ble, it stopped mov­ing. Not a leaf twitched or shook.

‘Crook­shanks!’ Hermione whis­pered un­cer­tain­ly. She now grasped Har­ry’s arm painful­ly hard. ‘How did he know –?’

‘He’s friends with that dog,’ said Har­ry grim­ly. ‘I’ve seen them to­geth­er. Come on – and keep your wand out –’

They cov­ered the dis­tance to the trunk in sec­onds, but be­fore they had reached the gap in the roots, Crook­shanks had slid in­to it with a flick of his bot­tle-​brush tail. Har­ry went next; he crawled for­wards, head­first, and slid down an earthy slope to the bot­tom of a very low tun­nel. Crook­shanks was a lit­tle way along, his eyes flash­ing in the light from Har­ry’s wand. Sec­onds lat­er, Hermione slith­ered down be­side him.

‘Where’s Ron?’ she whis­pered in a ter­ri­fied voice.

‘This way,’ said Har­ry, set­ting off, bent-​backed, af­ter Crook­shanks.

‘Where does this tun­nel come out?’ Hermione asked breath­less­ly from be­hind him.

‘I don’t know … it’s marked on the Ma­raud­er’s Map but Fred and George said no one’s ev­er got in­to it. It goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it ends up in Hogsmeade …’

They moved as fast as they could, bent al­most dou­ble; ahead of them, Crook­shanks’s tail bobbed in and out of view. On and on went the pas­sage; it felt at least as long as the one to Hon­ey­dukes. All Har­ry could think of was Ron, and what the enor­mous dog might be do­ing to him … he was draw­ing breath in sharp, painful gasps, run­ning at a crouch …

And then the tun­nel be­gan to rise; mo­ments lat­er it twist­ed, and Crook­shanks had gone. In­stead, Har­ry could see a patch of dim light through a small open­ing.

He and Hermione paused, gasp­ing for breath, edg­ing for­wards. Both raised their wands to see what lay be­yond.

It was a room, a very dis­or­dered, dusty room. Pa­per was peel­ing from the walls; there were stains all over the floor; ev­ery piece of fur­ni­ture was bro­ken as though some­body had smashed it. The win­dows were all board­ed-​up.

Har­ry glanced at Hermione, who looked very fright­ened, but nod­ded.

Har­ry pulled him­self out of the hole, star­ing around. The room was de­sert­ed, but a door to their right stood open, lead­ing to a shad­owy hall­way. Hermione sud­den­ly grabbed Har­ry’s arm again. Her wide eyes were trav­el­ling around the board­ed win­dows.

‘Har­ry,’ she whis­pered. ‘I think we’re in the Shriek­ing Shack.’

Har­ry looked around. His eyes fell on a wood­en chair near them. Large chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off en­tire­ly.

‘Ghosts didn’t do that,’ he said slow­ly.

At that mo­ment, there was a creak over­head. Some­thing had moved up­stairs. Both of them looked up at the ceil­ing. Hermione’s grip on Har­ry’s arm was so tight he was los­ing feel­ing in his fin­gers. He raised his eye­brows at her; she nod­ded again and let go.

Qui­et­ly as they could, they crept out in­to the hall and up the crum­bling stair­case. Ev­ery­thing was cov­ered in a thick lay­er of dust ex­cept the floor, where a wide, shiny stripe had been made by some­thing be­ing dragged up­stairs.

They reached the dark land­ing.

‘Nox,’ they whis­pered to­geth­er, and the lights at the end of their wands went out. On­ly one door was open. As they crept to­wards it, they heard move­ment from be­hind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They ex­changed a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tight­ly be­fore him, Har­ry kicked the door wide open.

On a mag­nif­icent four-​poster bed with dusty hang­ings lay Crook­shanks, purring loud­ly at the sight of them. On the floor be­side him, clutch­ing his leg, which stuck out at a strange an­gle, was Ron.

Har­ry and Hermione dashed across to him.

‘Ron – are you OK?’

‘Where’s the dog?’

‘Not a dog,’ Ron moaned. His teeth were grit­ted with pain. ‘Har­ry it’s a trap –’

‘What –’

‘He’s the dog … he’s an An­ima­gus …’

Ron was star­ing over Har­ry’s shoul­der. Har­ry wheeled around. With a snap, the man in the shad­ows closed the door be­hind them.

A mass of filthy, mat­ted hair hung to his el­bows. If eyes hadn’t been shin­ing out of the deep, dark sock­ets, he might have been a corpse. The waxy skin was stretched so tight­ly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull. His yel­low teeth were bared in a grin. It was Sir­ius Black.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ he croaked, point­ing Ron’s wand at them.

Har­ry and Hermione’s wands shot out of their hands, high in the air, and Black caught them. Then he took a step clos­er. His eyes were fixed on Har­ry.

‘I thought you’d come and help your friend,’ he said hoarse­ly. His voice sound­ed as though he had long ago lost the habit of us­ing it. ‘Your fa­ther would have done the same for me. Brave of you, not to run for a teach­er. I’m grate­ful … it will make ev­ery­thing much eas­ier …’

The taunt about his fa­ther rang in Har­ry’s ears as though Black had bel­lowed it. A boil­ing hate erupt­ed in Har­ry’s chest, leav­ing no place for fear. For the first time in his life, he want­ed his wand back in his hand, not to de­fend him­self, but to at­tack … to kill. With­out know­ing what he was do­ing, he start­ed for­wards, but there was a sud­den move­ment on ei­ther side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him back. ‘No, Har­ry!’ Hermione gasped in a pet­ri­fied whis­per; Ron, how­ev­er, spoke to Black.

‘If you want to kill Har­ry, you’ll have to kill us, too!’ he said fierce­ly, though the ef­fort of stand­ing up had drained him of still more colour, and he swayed slight­ly as he spoke.

Some­thing flick­ered in Black’s shad­owed eyes.

‘Lie down,’ he said qui­et­ly to Ron. ‘You will dam­age that leg even more.’

‘Did you hear me?’ Ron said weak­ly, though he was cling­ing painful­ly to Har­ry to stay up­right. ‘You’ll have to kill all three of us!’

‘There’ll on­ly be one mur­der here tonight,’ said Black, and his grin widened.

‘Why’s that?’ Har­ry spat, try­ing to wrench him­self free of Ron and Hermione. ‘Didn’t care last time, did you? Didn’t mind slaugh­ter­ing all those Mug­gles to get at Pet­ti­grew … What’s the mat­ter, gone soft in Azk­aban?’

‘Har­ry!’ Hermione whim­pered. ‘Be qui­et!’

‘HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!’ Har­ry roared, and with a huge ef­fort he broke free of Hermione and Ron’s re­straint and lunged for­wards –

He had for­got­ten about mag­ic – he had for­got­ten that he was short and skin­ny and thir­teen, where­as Black was a tall, full-​grown man. All Har­ry knew was that he want­ed to hurt Black as bad­ly as he could and that he didn’t care how much he got hurt in re­turn …

Per­haps it was the shock of Har­ry do­ing some­thing so stupid, but Black didn’t raise the wands in time. One of Har­ry’s hands fas­tened over Black’s wast­ed wrist, forc­ing the wandtips away; the knuck­les of Har­ry’s oth­er hand col­lid­ed with the side of Black’s head and they fell, back­wards, in­to the wall –

Hermione was scream­ing; Ron was yelling; there was a blind­ing flash as the wands in Black’s hand sent in­to the air a jet of sparks which missed Har­ry’s face by inch­es; Har­ry felt the shrunk­en arm un­der his fin­gers twist­ing mad­ly, but he clung on, his oth­er hand punch­ing ev­ery part of Black it could find.

But Black’s free hand had found Har­ry’s throat –

‘No,’ he hissed. ‘I’ve wait­ed too long –’

The fin­gers tight­ened, Har­ry choked, his glass­es askew.

Then he saw Hermione’s foot swing out of nowhere. Black let go of Har­ry with a grunt of pain. Ron had thrown him­self on Black’s wand hand and Har­ry heard a faint clat­ter –

He fought free of the tan­gle of bod­ies and saw his own wand rolling across the floor; he threw him­self to­wards it but –

‘Argh!’

Crook­shanks had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk them­selves deep in­to Har­ry’s arm; Har­ry threw him off, but Crook­shanks now dart­ed to­wards Har­ry’s wand –

‘NO YOU DON’T!’ roared Har­ry, and he aimed a kick at Crook­shanks that made the cat leap aside, spit­ting; Har­ry snatched up his wand and turned –

‘Get out of the way!’ he shout­ed at Ron and Hermione.

They didn’t need telling twice. Hermione, gasp­ing for breath, her lip bleed­ing, scram­bled aside, snatch­ing up her and Ron’s wands. Ron crawled to the four-​poster and col­lapsed on­to it, pant­ing, his white face now tinged with green, both hands clutch­ing his bro­ken leg.

Black was sprawled at the bot­tom of the wall. His thin chest rose and fell rapid­ly as he watched Har­ry walk­ing slow­ly near­er, his wand point­ing straight at Black’s heart.

‘Go­ing to kill me, Har­ry?’ he whis­pered.

Har­ry stopped right above him, his wand still point­ing at Black’s chest, look­ing down at him. A livid bruise was ris­ing around Black’s left eye and his nose was bleed­ing.

‘You killed my par­ents,’ said Har­ry, his voice shak­ing slight­ly, but his wand hand quite steady.

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

‘I don’t de­ny it,’ he said, very qui­et­ly. ‘But if you knew the whole sto­ry –’

‘The whole sto­ry?’ Har­ry re­peat­ed, a fu­ri­ous pound­ing in his ears. ‘You sold them to Volde­mort, that’s all I need to know!’

‘You’ve got to lis­ten to me,’ Black said, and there was a note of ur­gen­cy in his voice now. ‘You’ll re­gret it if you don’t … you don’t un­der­stand …’

‘I un­der­stand a lot bet­ter than you think,’ said Har­ry, and his voice shook more than ev­er. ‘You nev­er heard her, did you? My mum … try­ing to stop Volde­mort killing me … and you did that … you did it …’

Be­fore ei­ther of them could say an­oth­er word, some­thing gin­ger streaked past Har­ry; Crook­shanks leapt on­to Black’s chest, and set­tled him­self there, right over Black’s heart. Black blinked and looked down at the cat.

‘Get off,’ he mur­mured, try­ing to push Crook­shanks off him.

But Crook­shanks sank his claws in­to Black’s robes and wouldn’t shift. He turned his ug­ly, squashed face to Har­ry, and looked up at him with those great yel­low eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob.

Har­ry stared down at Black and Crook­shanks, his grip tight­en­ing on the wand. So what if he had to kill the cat, too? It was in league with Black … if it was pre­pared to die, try­ing to pro­tect Black, that wasn’t Har­ry’s busi­ness … if Black want­ed to save it, that on­ly proved he cared more for Crook­shanks than Har­ry’s par­ents …

Har­ry raised the wand. Now was the mo­ment to do it. Now was the mo­ment to avenge his moth­er and fa­ther. He was go­ing to kill Black. He had to kill Black. This was his chance …

The sec­onds length­ened, and still Har­ry stood frozen there, wand poised, Black star­ing up at him, Crook­shanks on his chest. Ron’s ragged breath­ing came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent.

And then came a new sound –

Muf­fled foot­steps were echo­ing up through the floor – some­one was mov­ing down­stairs.

‘WE’RE UP HERE!’ Hermione screamed sud­den­ly. ‘WE’RE UP HERE – SIR­IUS BLACK – QUICK!’

Black made a star­tled move­ment that al­most dis­lodged Crook­shanks; Har­ry gripped his wand con­vul­sive­ly – Do it now! said a voice in his head – but the foot­steps were thun­der­ing up the stairs and Har­ry still hadn’t done it.

The door of the room burst open in a show­er of red sparks and Har­ry wheeled around as Pro­fes­sor Lupin came hurtling in­to the room, his face blood­less, his wand raised and ready. His eyes flick­ered over Ron, ly­ing on the floor, over Hermione, cow­er­ing next to the door, to Har­ry, stand­ing there with his wand cov­er­ing Black, and then to Black him­self, crum­pled and bleed­ing at Har­ry’s feet.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ Lupin shout­ed.

Har­ry’s wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Hermione was hold­ing. Lupin caught them all deft­ly, then moved in­to the room, star­ing at Black, who still had Crook­shanks ly­ing pro­tec­tive­ly across his chest.

Har­ry stood there, feel­ing sud­den­ly emp­ty. He hadn’t done it. His nerve had failed him. Black was go­ing to be hand­ed back to the De­men­tors.

Then Lupin spoke, in an odd voice, a voice that shook with some sup­pressed emo­tion. ‘Where is he, Sir­ius?’

Har­ry looked quick­ly at Lupin. He didn’t un­der­stand what Lupin meant. Who was Lupin talk­ing about? He turned to look at Black again.

Black’s face was quite ex­pres­sion­less. For a few sec­onds, he didn’t move at all. Then, very slow­ly, he raised his emp­ty hand, and point­ed straight at Ron. Mys­ti­fied, Har­ry glanced around at Ron, who looked be­wil­dered.

‘But then …’ Lupin mut­tered, star­ing at Black so in­tent­ly it seemed he was try­ing to read his mind, ‘… why hasn’t he shown him­self be­fore now? Un­less –’ Lupin’s eyes sud­den­ly widened, as though he was see­ing some­thing be­yond Black, some­thing none of the rest could see, ‘– un­less he was the one … un­less you switched … with­out telling me?’

Very slow­ly, his sunken gaze nev­er leav­ing Lupin’s face, Black nod­ded.

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin,’ Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed loud­ly, ‘what’s go­ing –?’

But he nev­er fin­ished the ques­tion, be­cause what he saw made his voice die in his throat. Lupin was low­er­ing his wand. Next mo­ment, he had walked to Black’s side, seized his hand, pulled him to his feet so that Crook­shanks fell to the floor, and em­braced Black like a broth­er.

Har­ry felt as though the bot­tom had dropped out of his stom­ach.

‘I DON’T BE­LIEVE IT!’ Hermione screamed.

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had raised her­self off the floor, and was point­ing at Lupin, wild-​eyed. ‘You – you –’

‘Hermione –’

‘–you and him!’

‘Hermione, calm down –’

‘I didn’t tell any­one!’ Hermione shrieked. ‘I’ve been cov­er­ing up for you –’

‘Hermione, lis­ten to me, please!’ Lupin shout­ed. ‘I can ex­plain –’

Har­ry could feel him­self shak­ing, not with fear, but with a fresh wave of fury.

‘I trust­ed you,’ he shout­ed at Lupin, his voice wa­ver­ing out of con­trol, ‘and all the time you’ve been his friend!’

‘You’re wrong,’ said Lupin. ‘I haven’t been Sir­ius’s friend for twelve years, but I am now … let me ex­plain …’

‘NO!’ Hermione screamed, ‘Har­ry, don’t trust him, he’s been help­ing Black get in­to the cas­tle, he wants you dead too – he’s a were­wolf!’

There was a ring­ing si­lence. Ev­ery­one’s eyes were now on Lupin, who looked re­mark­ably calm, though rather pale.

‘Not at all up to your usu­al stan­dard, Hermione,’ he said. ‘On­ly one out of three, I’m afraid. I have not been help­ing Sir­ius get in­to the cas­tle and I cer­tain­ly don’t want Har­ry dead …’ An odd shiv­er passed over his face. ‘But I won’t de­ny that I am a were­wolf.’

Ron made a valiant ef­fort to get up again, but fell back with a whim­per of pain. Lupin made to­wards him, look­ing con­cerned, but Ron gasped, ‘Get away from me, were­wolf!’

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an ob­vi­ous ef­fort, he turned to Hermione and said, ‘How long have you known?’

‘Ages,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘Since I did Pro­fes­sor Snape’s es­say …’

‘He’ll be de­light­ed,’ said Lupin cool­ly. ‘He set that es­say hop­ing some­one would re­alise what my symp­toms meant. Did you check the lu­nar chart and re­alise that I was al­ways ill at the full moon? Or did you re­alise that the Bog­gart changed in­to the moon when it saw me?’

‘Both,’ Hermione said qui­et­ly.

Lupin forced a laugh.

‘You’re the clever­est witch of your age I’ve ev­er met, Hermione.’

‘I’m not,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘If I’d been a bit clev­er­er, I’d have told ev­ery­one what you are!’

‘But they al­ready know,’ said Lupin. ‘At least, the staff do.’

‘Dum­ble­dore hired you when he knew you were a were­wolf?’ Ron gasped. ‘Is he mad?’

‘Some of the staff thought so,’ said Lupin. ‘He had to work very hard to con­vince cer­tain teach­ers that I’m trust­wor­thy –’

‘AND HE WAS WRONG!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘YOU’VE BEEN HELP­ING HIM ALL THE TIME!’ He was point­ing at Black, who had crossed to the four-​poster bed and sunk on­to it, his face hid­den in one shak­ing hand. Crook­shanks leapt up be­side him and stepped on­to his lap, purring. Ron edged away from both of them, drag­ging his leg.

‘I have not been help­ing Sir­ius,’ said Lupin. ‘If you’ll give me a chance, I’ll ex­plain. Look –’

He sep­arat­ed Har­ry, Ron and Hermione’s wands and threw each back to its own­er; Har­ry caught his, stunned.

‘There,’ said Lupin, stick­ing his own wand back in­to his belt. ‘You’re armed, we’re not. Now will you lis­ten?’

Har­ry didn’t know what to think. Was it a trick?

‘If you haven’t been help­ing him,’ he said, with a fu­ri­ous glance at Black, ‘how did you know he was here?’

‘The map,’ said Lupin. ‘The Ma­raud­er’s Map. I was in my of­fice ex­am­in­ing it –’

‘You know how to work it?’ Har­ry said sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘Of course I know how to work it,’ said Lupin, wav­ing his hand im­pa­tient­ly. ‘I helped write it. I’m Moony – that was my friends’ nick­name for me at school.’

‘You wrote –?’

‘The im­por­tant thing is, I was watch­ing it care­ful­ly this evening, be­cause I had an idea that you, Ron and Hermione might try and sneak out of the cas­tle to vis­it Ha­grid be­fore his Hip­pogriff was ex­ecut­ed. And I was right, wasn’t I?’

He had start­ed to pace up and down, look­ing at them. Lit­tle patch­es of dust rose at his feet.

‘You might have been wear­ing your fa­ther’s old Cloak, Har­ry –’

‘How d’you know about the Cloak?’

‘The num­ber of times I saw James dis­ap­pear­ing un­der it …’ said Lupin, wav­ing an im­pa­tient hand again. ‘The point is, even if you’re wear­ing an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak you show up on the Ma­raud­er’s Map. I watched you cross the grounds and en­ter Ha­grid’s hut. Twen­ty min­utes lat­er, you left Ha­grid, and set off back to­wards the cas­tle. But you were now ac­com­pa­nied by some­body else.’

‘What?’ said Har­ry. ‘No, we weren’t!’

‘I couldn’t be­lieve my eyes,’ said Lupin, still pac­ing, and ig­nor­ing Har­ry’s in­ter­rup­tion. ‘I thought the map must be mal­func­tion­ing. How could he be with you?’

‘No one was with us!’ said Har­ry.

‘And then I saw an­oth­er dot, mov­ing fast to­wards you, la­belled Sir­ius Black … I saw him col­lide with you, I watched as he pulled two of you in­to the Whomp­ing Wil­low –’

‘One of us!’ Ron said an­gri­ly.

‘No, Ron,’ said Lupin. ‘Two of you.’

He had stopped his pac­ing, his eyes mov­ing over Ron.

‘Do you think I could have a look at the rat?’ he said even­ly.

‘What?’ said Ron. ‘What’s Scab­bers got to do with it?’

‘Ev­ery­thing,’ said Lupin. ‘Could I see him, please?’

Ron hes­itat­ed, then put a hand in­side his robes. Scab­bers emerged, thrash­ing des­per­ate­ly; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him es­cap­ing. Crook­shanks stood up on Black’s lap and made a soft hiss­ing noise.

Lupin moved clos­er to Ron. He seemed to be hold­ing his breath as he gazed in­tent­ly at Scab­bers.

‘What?’ Ron said again, hold­ing Scab­bers close to him, look­ing scared. ‘What’s my rat got to do with any­thing?’

‘That’s not a rat,’ croaked Sir­ius Black sud­den­ly.

‘What d’you mean – of course he’s a rat –’

‘No, he’s not,’ said Lupin qui­et­ly. ‘He’s a wiz­ard.’

‘An An­ima­gus,’ said Black, ‘by the name of Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew.’





