CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs



It took a few sec­onds for the ab­sur­di­ty of this state­ment to sink in. Then Ron voiced what Har­ry was think­ing.

‘You’re both men­tal.’

‘Ridicu­lous!’ said Hermione faint­ly.

‘Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew’s dead!’ said Har­ry. ‘He killed him twelve years ago!’

He point­ed at Black, whose face twitched con­vul­sive­ly.

‘I meant to,’ he growled, his yel­low teeth bared, ‘but lit­tle Pe­ter got the bet­ter of me … not this time, though!’

And Crook­shanks was thrown to the floor as Black lunged at Scab­bers; Ron yelled with pain as Black’s weight fell on his bro­ken leg.

‘Sir­ius, NO!’ Lupin yelled, launch­ing him­self for­wards and drag­ging Black away from Ron again, ‘WAIT! You can’t do it just like that – they need to un­der­stand – we’ve got to ex­plain –’

‘We can ex­plain af­ter­wards!’ snarled Black, try­ing to throw Lupin off, one hand still claw­ing the air as it tried to reach Scab­bers, who was squeal­ing like a piglet, scratch­ing Ron’s face and neck as he tried to es­cape.

‘They’ve – got – a – right – to – know – ev­ery­thing!’ Lupin pant­ed, still try­ing to re­strain Black. ‘Ron’s kept him as a pet! There are parts of it even I don’t un­der­stand! And Har­ry – you owe Har­ry the truth, Sir­ius!’

Black stopped strug­gling, though his hol­lowed eyes were still fixed on Scab­bers, who was clamped tight­ly un­der Ron’s bit­ten, scratched and bleed­ing hands.

‘All right, then,’ Black said, with­out tak­ing his eyes off the rat. ‘Tell them what­ev­er you like. But make it quick, Re­mus. I want to com­mit the mur­der I was im­pris­oned for …’

‘You’re nut­ters, both of you,’ said Ron shak­ily, look­ing round at Har­ry and Hermione for sup­port. ‘I’ve had enough of this. I’m off.’

He tried to heave him­self up on his good leg, but Lupin raised his wand again, point­ing it at Scab­bers.

‘You’re go­ing to hear me out, Ron,’ he said qui­et­ly. ‘Just keep a tight hold on Pe­ter while you lis­ten.’

‘HE’S NOT PE­TER, HE’S SCAB­BERS!’ Ron yelled, try­ing to force the rat back in­to his front pock­et, but Scab­bers was fight­ing too hard; Ron swayed and over­bal­anced, and Har­ry caught him and pushed him back down to the bed. Then, ig­nor­ing Black, Har­ry turned to Lupin.

‘There were wit­ness­es who saw Pet­ti­grew die,’ he said. ‘A whole street full of them …’

‘They didn’t see what they thought they saw!’ said Black sav­age­ly, still watch­ing Scab­bers strug­gling in Ron’s hands.

‘Ev­ery­one thought Sir­ius killed Pe­ter,’ said Lupin, nod­ding. ‘I be­lieved it my­self – un­til I saw the map tonight. Be­cause the Ma­raud­er’s Map nev­er lies … Pe­ter’s alive. Ron’s hold­ing him, Har­ry.’

Har­ry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met they agreed, silent­ly: Black and Lupin were both out of their minds. Their sto­ry made no sense what­so­ev­er. How could Scab­bers be Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew? Azk­aban must have un­hinged Black af­ter all – but why was Lupin play­ing along with him?

Then Hermione spoke, in a trem­bling, would-​be calm sort of voice, as though try­ing to will Pro­fes­sor Lupin to talk sen­si­bly.

‘But Pro­fes­sor Lupin … Scab­bers can’t be Pet­ti­grew … it just can’t be true, you know it can’t …’

‘Why can’t it be true?’ Lupin said calm­ly, as though they were in class, and Hermione had sim­ply spot­ted a prob­lem in an ex­per­iment with Grindy­lows.

‘Be­cause … be­cause peo­ple would know if Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew had been an An­ima­gus. We did An­ima­gi in class with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. And I looked them up when I did my home­work – the Min­istry keeps tabs on witch­es and wiz­ards who can be­come an­imals; there’s a reg­is­ter show­ing what an­imal they be­come, and their mark­ings and things … and I went and looked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall up on the reg­is­ter, and there have on­ly been sev­en An­ima­gi this cen­tu­ry, and Pet­ti­grew’s name wasn’t on the list –’

Har­ry bare­ly had time to mar­vel in­ward­ly at the ef­fort Hermione put in­to her home­work, when Lupin start­ed to laugh.

‘Right again, Hermione!’ he said. ‘But the Min­istry nev­er knew that there used to be three un­reg­is­tered An­ima­gi run­ning around Hog­warts.’

‘If you’re go­ing to tell them the sto­ry, get a move on, Re­mus,’ snarled Black, who was still watch­ing Scab­bers’s ev­ery des­per­ate move. ‘I’ve wait­ed twelve years, I’m not go­ing to wait much longer.’

‘All right … but you’ll need to help me, Sir­ius,’ said Lupin, ‘I on­ly know how it be­gan …’

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak be­hind him. The bed­room door had opened of its own ac­cord. All five of them stared at it. Then Lupin strode to­wards it and looked out in­to the land­ing.

‘No one there …’

‘This place is haunt­ed!’ said Ron.

‘It’s not,’ said Lupin, still look­ing at the door in a puz­zled way. ‘The Shriek­ing Shack was nev­er haunt­ed … the screams and howls the vil­lagers used to hear were made by me.’

He pushed his grey­ing hair out of his eyes, thought for a mo­ment, then said, ‘That’s where all of this starts – with my be­com­ing a were­wolf. None of this could have hap­pened if I hadn’t been bit­ten … and if I hadn’t been so fool­hardy …’

He looked sober and tired. Ron start­ed to in­ter­rupt, but Hermione said, ‘Shh!’ She was watch­ing Lupin very in­tent­ly.

‘I was a very small boy when I re­ceived the bite. My par­ents tried ev­ery­thing, but in those days there was no cure. The Po­tion that Pro­fes­sor Snape has been mak­ing for me is a very re­cent dis­cov­ery. It makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week pre­ced­ing the full moon, I keep my mind when I trans­form … I am able to curl up in my of­fice, a harm­less wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.

‘Be­fore the Wolfs­bane Po­tion was dis­cov­ered, how­ev­er, I be­came a ful­ly fledged mon­ster once a month. It seemed im­pos­si­ble that I would be able to come to Hog­warts. Oth­er par­ents weren’t like­ly to want their chil­dren ex­posed to me.

‘But then Dum­ble­dore be­came Head­mas­ter, and he was sym­pa­thet­ic. He said that, as long as we took cer­tain pre­cau­tions, there was no rea­son I shouldn’t come to school …’ Lupin sighed, and looked di­rect­ly at Har­ry. ‘I told you, months ago, that the Whomp­ing Wil­low was plant­ed the year I came to Hog­warts. The truth is that it was plant­ed be­cause I had come to Hog­warts. This house –’ Lupin looked mis­er­ably around the room, ‘– the tun­nel that leads to it – they were built for my use. Once a month, I was smug­gled out of the cas­tle, in­to this place, to trans­form. The tree was placed at the tun­nel mouth to stop any­one com­ing across me while I was dan­ger­ous.’

Har­ry couldn’t see where this sto­ry was go­ing, but he was lis­ten­ing rapt­ly all the same. The on­ly sound apart from Lupin’s voice was Scab­bers’s fright­ened squeak­ing.

‘My trans­for­ma­tions in those days were – were ter­ri­ble. It is very painful to turn in­to a were­wolf. I was sep­arat­ed from hu­mans to bite, so I bit and scratched my­self in­stead. The vil­lagers heard the noise and the scream­ing and thought they were hear­ing par­tic­ular­ly vi­olent spir­its. Dum­ble­dore en­cour­aged the ru­mour … even now, when the house has been silent for years, the vil­lagers don’t dare ap­proach it …

‘But apart from my trans­for­ma­tions, I was hap­pi­er than I had ev­er been in my life. For the first time ev­er, I had friends, three great friends. Sir­ius Black … Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew … and, of course, your fa­ther, Har­ry – James Pot­ter.

‘Now, my three friends could hard­ly fail to no­tice that I dis­ap­peared once a month. I made up all sorts of sto­ries. I told them my moth­er was ill, and that I had to go home to see her … I was ter­ri­fied they would desert me the mo­ment they found out what I was. But of course, they, like you, Hermione, worked out the truth …

‘And they didn’t desert me at all. In­stead they did some­thing for me that would make my trans­for­ma­tions not on­ly bear­able, but the best times of my life. They be­came An­ima­gi.’

‘My dad, too?’ said Har­ry, as­tound­ed.

‘Yes, in­deed,’ said Lupin. ‘It took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. Your fa­ther and Sir­ius here were the clever­est stu­dents in the school, and lucky they were, be­cause the An­ima­gus trans­for­ma­tion can go hor­ri­bly wrong – one rea­son the Min­istry keeps a close watch on those at­tempt­ing to do it. Pe­ter need­ed all the help he could get from James and Sir­ius. Fi­nal­ly, in our fifth year, they man­aged it. They could each turn in­to a dif­fer­ent an­imal at will.’

‘But how did that help you?’ said Hermione, sound­ing puz­zled.

‘They couldn’t keep me com­pa­ny as hu­mans, so they kept me com­pa­ny as an­imals,’ said Lupin. ‘A were­wolf is on­ly a dan­ger to peo­ple. They sneaked out of the cas­tle ev­ery month un­der James’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. They trans­formed … Pe­ter, as the small­est, could slip be­neath the Wil­low’s at­tack­ing branch­es and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then slip down the tun­nel and join me. Un­der their in­flu­ence, I be­came less dan­ger­ous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to be­come less so while I was with them.’

‘Hur­ry up, Re­mus,’ snarled Black, who was still watch­ing Scab­bers with a hor­ri­ble sort of hunger in his face.

‘I’m get­ting there, Sir­ius, I’m get­ting there … well, high­ly ex­cit­ing pos­si­bil­ities were open to us now we could all trans­form. Soon we were leav­ing the Shriek­ing Shack and roam­ing the school grounds and the vil­lage by night. Sir­ius and James trans­formed in­to such large an­imals, they were able to keep a were­wolf in check. I doubt whether any Hog­warts stu­dents ev­er found out more about the Hog­warts grounds and Hogsmeade than we did … And that’s how we came to write the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and sign it with our nick­names. Sir­ius is Pad­foot. Pe­ter is Worm­tail. James was Prongs.’

‘What sort of an­imal –?’ Har­ry be­gan, but Hermione cut across him.

‘That was still re­al­ly dan­ger­ous! Run­ning around in the dark with a were­wolf! What if you’d giv­en the oth­ers the slip, and bit­ten some­body?’

‘A thought that still haunts me,’ said Lupin heav­ily. ‘And there were near miss­es, many of them. We laughed about them af­ter­wards. We were young, thought­less – car­ried away with our own clev­er­ness.’

‘I some­times felt guilty about be­tray­ing Dum­ble­dore’s trust, of course … he had ad­mit­ted me to Hog­warts when no oth­er head­mas­ter would have done so, and he had no idea I was break­ing the rules he had set down for my own and oth­ers’ safe­ty. He nev­er knew I had led three fel­low stu­dents in­to be­com­ing An­ima­gi il­le­gal­ly. But I al­ways man­aged to for­get my guilty feel­ings ev­ery time we sat down to plan our next month’s ad­ven­ture. And I haven’t changed …’

Lupin’s face had hard­ened, and there was self-​di­gust in his voice. ‘All this year, I have been bat­tling with my­self, won­der­ing whether I should tell Dum­ble­dore that Sir­ius was an An­ima­gus. But I didn’t do it. Why? Be­cause I was too cow­ard­ly. It would have meant ad­mit­ting that I’d be­trayed his trust while I was at school, ad­mit­ting that I’d led oth­ers along with me … and Dum­ble­dore’s trust has meant ev­ery­thing to me. He let me in­to Hog­warts as a boy, and he gave me a job, when I have been shunned all my adult life, un­able to find paid work be­cause of what I am. And so I con­vinced my­self that Sir­ius was get­ting in­to the school us­ing dark arts he learned from Volde­mort, that be­ing an An­ima­gus had noth­ing to do with it … so, in a way, Snape’s been right about me all along.’

‘Snape?’ said Black harsh­ly, tak­ing his eyes off Scab­bers for the first time in min­utes and look­ing up at Lupin. ‘What’s Snape got to do with it?’

‘He’s here, Sir­ius,’ said Lupin heav­ily. ‘He’s teach­ing here as well.’ He looked up at Har­ry, Ron and Hermione.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my ap­point­ment to the De­fence Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling Dum­ble­dore all year that I am not to be trust­ed. He has his rea­sons … you see, Sir­ius here played a trick on him which near­ly killed him, a trick which in­volved me –’

Black made a de­ri­sive noise.

‘It served him right,’ he sneered. ‘Sneak­ing around, try­ing to find out what we were up to … hop­ing he could get us ex­pelled …’

‘Severus was very in­ter­est­ed in where I went ev­ery month,’ Lupin told Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘We were in the same year, you know, and we – er – didn’t like each oth­er very much. He es­pe­cial­ly dis­liked James. Jeal­ous, I think, of James’s tal­ent on the Quid­ditch pitch … any­way, Snape had seen me cross­ing the grounds with Madam Pom­frey one evening as she led me to­wards the Whomp­ing Wil­low to trans­form. Sir­ius thought it would be – er – amus­ing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the knot on the tree-​trunk with a long stick, and he’d be able to get in af­ter me. Well, of course, Snape tried it – if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a ful­ly grown were­wolf – but your fa­ther, who’d heard what Sir­ius had done, went af­ter Snape and pulled him back, at great risk to his life … Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the tun­nel. He was for­bid­den to tell any­body by Dum­ble­dore, but from that time on he knew what I was …’

‘So that’s why Snape doesn’t like you,’ said Har­ry slow­ly, ‘be­cause he thought you were in on the joke?’

‘That’s right,’ sneered a cold voice from the wall be­hind Lupin.

Severus Snape was pulling off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, his wand point­ing di­rect­ly at Lupin.





