CHAPTER TWO


Aunt Marge’s Big Mis­take



Har­ry went down to break­fast next morn­ing to find the three Durs­leys al­ready sit­ting around the kitchen ta­ble. They were watch­ing a brand-​new tele­vi­sion, a wel­come-​home-​for-​the-​sum­mer present for Dud­ley, who had been com­plain­ing loud­ly about the long walk be­tween the fridge and the tele­vi­sion in the liv­ing room. Dud­ley had spent most of the sum­mer in the kitchen, his pig­gy lit­tle eyes fixed on the screen and his five chins wob­bling as he ate con­tin­ual­ly.

Har­ry sat down be­tween Dud­ley and Un­cle Ver­non, a large, beefy man with very lit­tle neck and a lot of mous­tache. Far from wish­ing Har­ry a hap­py birth­day, none of the Durs­leys gave any sign that they had no­ticed Har­ry en­ter the room, but Har­ry was far too used to this to care. He helped him­self to a piece of toast and then looked up at the news­read­er on the tele­vi­sion, who was halfway through a re­port on an es­caped con­vict.

‘… the pub­lic is warned that Black is armed and ex­treme­ly dan­ger­ous. A spe­cial hot­line has been set up, and any sight­ing of Black should be re­port­ed im­me­di­ate­ly.’

‘No need to tell us he’s no good,’ snort­ed Un­cle Ver­non, star­ing over the top of his news­pa­per at the pris­on­er. ‘Look at the state of him, the filthy layabout! Look at his hair!’

He shot a nasty look side­ways at Har­ry, whose un­tidy hair had al­ways been a source of great an­noy­ance to Un­cle Ver­non. Com­pared to the man on the tele­vi­sion, how­ev­er, whose gaunt face was sur­round­ed by a mat­ted, el­bow-​length tan­gle, Har­ry felt very well groomed in­deed.

The news­read­er had reap­peared.

‘The Min­istry of Agri­cul­ture and Fish­eries will an­nounce to­day –’

‘Hang on!’ barked Un­cle Ver­non, star­ing fu­ri­ous­ly at the news­read­er. ‘You didn’t tell us where that ma­ni­ac’s es­caped from! What use is that? Lu­natic could be com­ing up the street right now!’

Aunt Petu­nia, who was bony and horse-​faced, whipped around and peered in­tent­ly out of the kitchen win­dow. Har­ry knew Aunt Petu­nia would sim­ply love to be the one to call the hot­line num­ber. She was the nosiest wom­an in the world and spent most of her life spy­ing on her bor­ing, law-​abid­ing neigh­bours.

‘When will they learn,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, pound­ing the ta­ble with his large pur­ple fist, ‘that hang­ing’s the on­ly way to deal with these peo­ple?’

‘Very true,’ said Aunt Petu­nia, who was still squint­ing in­to next door’s run­ner-​beans.

Un­cle Ver­non drained his teacup, glanced at his watch and added, ‘I’d bet­ter be off in a minute, Petu­nia, Marge’s train gets in at ten.’

Har­ry, whose thoughts had been up­stairs with the Broom­stick Ser­vic­ing Kit, was brought back to earth with an un­pleas­ant bump.

‘Aunt Marge?’ he blurt­ed out. ‘Sh-​she’s not com­ing here, is she?’

Aunt Marge was Un­cle Ver­non’s sis­ter. Even though she was not a blood rel­ative of Har­ry’s (whose moth­er had been Aunt Petu­nia’s sis­ter), he had been forced to call her ‘Aunt’ all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the coun­try, in a house with a large gar­den, where she bred bull­dogs. She didn’t of­ten stay in Priv­et Drive, be­cause she couldn’t bear to leave her pre­cious dogs, but each of her vis­its stood out hor­ri­bly vivid­ly in Har­ry’s mind.

At Dud­ley’s fifth birth­day par­ty, Aunt Marge had whacked Har­ry around the shins with her walk­ing stick to stop him beat­ing Dud­ley at mu­si­cal stat­ues. A few years lat­er, she had turned up at Christ­mas with a com­put­erised robot for Dud­ley and a box of dog bis­cuits for Har­ry. On her last vis­it, the year be­fore Har­ry had start­ed at Hog­warts, Har­ry had ac­ci­den­tal­ly trod­den on the paw of her favourite dog. Rip­per had chased Har­ry out in­to the gar­den and up a tree, and Aunt Marge had re­fused to call him off un­til past mid­night. The mem­ory of this in­ci­dent still brought tears of laugh­ter to Dud­ley’s eyes.

‘Marge’ll be here for a week,’ Un­cle Ver­non snarled, ‘and while we’re on the sub­ject,’ he point­ed a fat fin­ger threat­en­ing­ly at Har­ry, ‘we need to get a few things straight be­fore I go and col­lect her.’

Dud­ley smirked and with­drew his gaze from the tele­vi­sion. Watch­ing Har­ry be­ing bul­lied by Un­cle Ver­non was Dud­ley’s favourite form of en­ter­tain­ment.

‘First­ly,’ growled Un­cle Ver­non, ‘you’ll keep a civ­il tongue in your head when you’re talk­ing to Marge.’

‘All right,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly, ‘if she does when she’s talk­ing to me.’

‘Sec­ond­ly,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, act­ing as though he had not heard Har­ry’s re­ply, ‘as Marge doesn’t know any­thing about your ab­nor­mal­ity, I don’t want any – any fun­ny stuff while she’s here. You be­have your­self, got me?’

‘I will if she does,’ said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth.

‘And third­ly,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, his mean lit­tle eyes now slits in his great pur­ple face, ‘we’ve told Marge you at­tend St Bru­tus’s Se­cure Cen­tre for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys.’

‘What?’ Har­ry yelled.

‘And you’ll be stick­ing to that sto­ry, boy, or there’ll be trou­ble,’ spat Un­cle Ver­non.

Har­ry sat there, white-​faced and fu­ri­ous, star­ing at Un­cle Ver­non, hard­ly able to be­lieve it. Aunt Marge com­ing for a week-​long vis­it – it was the worst birth­day present the Durs­leys had ev­er giv­en him, in­clud­ing that pair of Un­cle Ver­non’s old socks.

‘Well, Petu­nia,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, get­ting heav­ily to his feet, ‘I’ll be off to the sta­tion, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dud­ders?’

‘No,’ said Dud­ley, whose at­ten­tion had re­turned to the tele­vi­sion now that Un­cle Ver­non had fin­ished threat­en­ing Har­ry.

‘Dud­dy’s got to make him­self smart for his aun­tie,’ said Aunt Petu­nia, smooth­ing Dud­ley’s thick blond hair. ‘Mum­my’s bought him a love­ly new bow-​tie.’

Un­cle Ver­non clapped Dud­ley on his porky shoul­der.

‘See you in a bit, then,’ he said, and he left the kitchen.

Har­ry, who had been sit­ting in a kind of hor­ri­fied trance, had a sud­den idea. Aban­don­ing his toast, he got quick­ly to his feet and fol­lowed Un­cle Ver­non to the front door.

Un­cle Ver­non was pulling on his car coat.

‘I’m not tak­ing you,’ he snarled, as he turned to see Har­ry watch­ing him. ‘Like I want­ed to come,’ said Har­ry cold­ly. ‘I want to ask you some­thing.’ Un­cle Ver­non eyed him sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘Third years at Hog – at my school are al­lowed to vis­it the vil­lage some­times,’ said Har­ry.

‘So?’ snapped Un­cle Ver­non, tak­ing his car keys from a hook next to the door.

‘I need you to sign the per­mis­sion form,’ said Har­ry in a rush.

‘And why should I do that?’ sneered Un­cle Ver­non.

‘Well,’ said Har­ry, choos­ing his words care­ful­ly, ‘it’ll be hard work, pre­tend­ing to Aunt Marge I go to that St What­sits …’

‘St Bru­tus’s Se­cure Cen­tre for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys!’ bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non, and Har­ry was pleased to hear a def­inite note of pan­ic in Un­cle Ver­non’s voice.

‘Ex­act­ly,’ said Har­ry, look­ing calm­ly up in­to Un­cle Ver­non’s large, pur­ple face. ‘It’s a lot to re­mem­ber. I’ll have to make it sound con­vinc­ing, won’t I? What if I ac­ci­den­tal­ly let some­thing slip?’

‘You’ll get the stuff­ing knocked out of you, won’t you?’ roared Un­cle Ver­non, ad­vanc­ing on Har­ry with his fist raised. But Har­ry stood his ground.

‘Knock­ing the stuff­ing out of me won’t make Aunt Marge for­get what I could tell her,’ he said grim­ly.

Un­cle Ver­non stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ug­ly puce.

‘But if you sign my per­mis­sion form,’ Har­ry went on quick­ly, ‘I swear I’ll re­mem­ber where I’m sup­posed to go to school, and I’ll act like a Mug – like I’m nor­mal and ev­ery­thing.’

Har­ry could tell that Un­cle Ver­non was think­ing it over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was throb­bing in his tem­ple.

‘Right,’ he snapped fi­nal­ly. ‘I shall mon­itor your be­haviour care­ful­ly dur­ing Marge’s vis­it. If, at the end of it, you’ve toed the line and kept to the sto­ry, I’ll sign your rud­dy form.’

He wheeled around, pulled open the front door and slammed it so hard that one of the lit­tle panes of glass at the top fell out.

Har­ry didn’t re­turn to the kitchen. He went back up­stairs to his bed­room. If he was go­ing to act like a re­al Mug­gle, he’d bet­ter start now. Slow­ly and sad­ly he gath­ered up all his presents and his birth­day cards and hid them un­der the loose floor­board with his home­work. Then he went to Hed­wig’s cage. Er­rol seemed to have re­cov­ered; he and Hed­wig were both asleep, heads un­der their wings. Har­ry sighed, then poked them both awake.

‘Hed­wig,’ he said gloomi­ly, ‘you’re go­ing to have to clear off for a week. Go with Er­rol, Ron’ll look af­ter you. I’ll write him a note, ex­plain­ing. And don’t look at me like that’ – Hed­wig’s large am­ber eyes were re­proach­ful, ‘it’s not my fault. It’s the on­ly way I’ll be al­lowed to vis­it Hogsmeade with Ron and Hermione.’

Ten min­utes lat­er, Er­rol and Hed­wig (who had a note to Ron bound to her leg) soared out of the win­dow and out of sight. Har­ry, now feel­ing thor­ough­ly mis­er­able, put the emp­ty cage away in­side the wardrobe.

But Har­ry didn’t have long to brood. In next to no time, Aunt Petu­nia was shriek­ing up the stairs for Har­ry to come down and get ready to wel­come their guest.

‘Do some­thing about your hair!’ Aunt Petu­nia snapped as he reached the hall.

Har­ry couldn’t see the point of try­ing to make his hair lie flat. Aunt Marge loved crit­icis­ing him, so the un­ti­di­er he looked, the hap­pi­er she would be.

All too soon, there was a crunch of grav­el out­side as Un­cle Ver­non’s car pulled back in­to the drive­way, then the clunk of the car doors, and foot­steps on the gar­den path.

‘Get the door!’ Aunt Petu­nia hissed at Har­ry.

A feel­ing of great gloom in his stom­ach, Har­ry pulled the door open.

On the thresh­old stood Aunt Marge. She was very like Un­cle Ver­non; large, beefy and pur­ple-​faced, she even had a mous­tache, though not as bushy as his. In one hand she held an enor­mous suit­case, and tucked un­der the oth­er was an old and evil-​tem­pered bull­dog.

‘Where’s my Dud­ders?’ roared Aunt Marge. ‘Where’s my neffy poo?’

Dud­ley came wad­dling down the hall, his blond hair plas­tered flat to his fat head, a bow-​tie just vis­ible un­der his many chins. Aunt Marge thrust the suit­case in­to Har­ry’s stom­ach, knock­ing the wind out of him, seized Dud­ley in a tight one-​armed hug and plant­ed a large kiss on his cheek.

Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well that Dud­ley on­ly put up with Aunt Marge’s hugs be­cause he was well paid for it, and sure enough, when they broke apart, Dud­ley had a crisp twen­ty-​pound note clutched in his fat fist.

‘Petu­nia!’ shout­ed Aunt Marge, strid­ing past Har­ry as though he was a hat-​stand. Aunt Marge and Aunt Petu­nia kissed, or rather, Aunt Marge bumped her large jaw against Aunt Petu­nia’s bony cheek­bone.

Un­cle Ver­non now came in, smil­ing jovial­ly as he shut the door.

‘Tea, Marge?’ he said. ‘And what will Rip­per take?’

‘Rip­per can have some tea out of my saucer,’ said Aunt Marge, as they all trooped in­to the kitchen, leav­ing Har­ry alone in the hall with the suit­case. But Har­ry wasn’t com­plain­ing; any ex­cuse not to be with Aunt Marge was fine by him, so he be­gan to heave the case up­stairs in­to the spare bed­room, tak­ing as long as he could.

By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Marge had been sup­plied with tea and fruit­cake and Rip­per was lap­ping nois­ily in the cor­ner. Har­ry saw Aunt Petu­nia wince slight­ly as specks of tea and drool flecked her clean floor. Aunt Petu­nia hat­ed an­imals.

‘Who’s look­ing af­ter the oth­er dogs, Marge?’ Un­cle Ver­non asked.

‘Oh, I’ve got Colonel Fub­ster man­ag­ing them,’ boomed Aunt Marge. ‘He’s re­tired now, good for him to have some­thing to do. But I couldn’t leave poor old Rip­per. He pines if he’s away from me.’

Rip­per be­gan to growl again as Har­ry sat down. This di­rect­ed Aunt Marge’s at­ten­tion to Har­ry for the first time.

‘So!’ she barked. ‘Still here, are you?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry.

‘Don’t you say ‘yes’ in that un­grate­ful tone,’ Aunt Marge growled. ‘It’s damn good of Ver­non and Petu­nia to keep you. Wouldn’t have done it my­self. You’d have gone straight to an or­phan­age if you’d been dumped on my doorstep.’

Har­ry was burst­ing to say that he’d rather live in an or­phan­age than with the Durs­leys, but the thought of the Hogsmeade form stopped him. He forced his face in­to a painful smile.

‘Don’t you smirk at me!’ boomed Aunt Marge. ‘I can see you haven’t im­proved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some man­ners in­to you.’ She took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mous­tache and said, ‘Where is it that you send him, again, Ver­non?’

‘St Bru­tus’s,’ said Un­cle Ver­non prompt­ly. ‘It’s a first-​rate in­sti­tu­tion for hope­less cas­es.’

‘I see,’ said Aunt Marge. ‘Do they use the cane at St Bru­tus’s, boy?’ she barked across the ta­ble.

‘Er –’

Un­cle Ver­non nod­ded curt­ly be­hind Aunt Marge’s back.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. Then, feel­ing he might as well do the thing prop­er­ly, he added, ‘All the time.’

‘Ex­cel­lent,’ said Aunt Marge. ‘I won’t have this nam­by-​pam­by, wishy-​washy non­sense about not hit­ting peo­ple who de­serve it. A good thrash­ing is what’s need­ed in nine­ty-​nine cas­es out of a hun­dred. Have you been beat­en of­ten?’

‘Oh, yeah,’ said Har­ry, ‘loads of times.’

Aunt Marge nar­rowed her eyes.

‘I still don’t like your tone, boy’ she said. ‘If you can speak of your beat­ings in that ca­su­al way, they clear­ly aren’t hit­ting you hard enough. Petu­nia, I’d write if I were you. Make it clear that you ap­prove the use of ex­treme force in this boy’s case.’

Per­haps Un­cle Ver­non was wor­ried that Har­ry might for­get their bar­gain; in any case, he changed the sub­ject abrupt­ly.

‘Heard the news this morn­ing, Marge? What about that es­caped pris­on­er, eh?’

*

As Aunt Marge start­ed to make her­self at home, Har­ry caught him­self think­ing al­most long­ing­ly of life at num­ber four with­out her. Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia usu­al­ly en­cour­aged Har­ry to stay out of their way, which Har­ry was on­ly too hap­py to do. Aunt Marge, on the oth­er hand, want­ed Har­ry un­der her eye at all times, so that she could boom out sug­ges­tions for his im­prove­ment. She de­light­ed in com­par­ing Har­ry with Dud­ley, and took huge plea­sure in buy­ing Dud­ley ex­pen­sive presents whilst glar­ing at Har­ry, as though dar­ing him to ask why he hadn’t got a present too. She al­so kept throw­ing out dark hints about what made Har­ry such an un­sat­is­fac­to­ry per­son.

‘You mustn’t blame your­self for the way the boy’s turned out, Ver­non,’ she said over lunch on the third day. ‘If there’s some­thing rot­ten on the in­side, there’s noth­ing any­one can do about it.’

Har­ry tried to con­cen­trate on his food, but his hands shook and his face was start­ing to burn with anger. Re­mem­ber the form, he told him­self. Think about Hogsmeade. Don’t say any­thing. Don’t rise –

Aunt Marge reached for her glass of wine.

‘It’s one of the ba­sic rules of breed­ing,’ she said. ‘You see it all the time with dogs. If there’s some­thing wrong with the bitch, there’ll be some­thing wrong with the pup –’

At that mo­ment, the wine glass Aunt Marge was hold­ing ex­plod­ed in her hand. Shards of glass flew in ev­ery di­rec­tion and Aunt Marge splut­tered and blinked, her great rud­dy face drip­ping.

‘Marge!’ squealed Aunt Petu­nia. ‘Marge, are you all right?’

‘Not to wor­ry,’ grunt­ed Aunt Marge, mop­ping her face with her nap­kin. ‘Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fub­ster’s the oth­er day. No need to fuss, Petu­nia, I have a very firm grip …’

But Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non were both look­ing at Har­ry sus­pi­cious­ly, so he de­cid­ed he’d bet­ter skip pud­ding and es­cape from the ta­ble as soon as he could.

Out­side in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breath­ing deeply. It had been a long time since he’d lost con­trol and made some­thing ex­plode. He couldn’t af­ford to let it hap­pen again. The Hogsmeade form wasn’t the on­ly thing at stake – if he car­ried on like that, he’d be in trou­ble with the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

Har­ry was still an un­der­age wiz­ard, and he was for­bid­den by wiz­ard law to do mag­ic out­side school. His record wasn’t ex­act­ly clean, ei­ther. On­ly last sum­mer he’d got an of­fi­cial warn­ing which had stat­ed quite clear­ly that if the Min­istry got wind of any more mag­ic in Priv­et Drive, Har­ry would face ex­pul­sion from Hog­warts.

He heard the Durs­leys leav­ing the ta­ble and hur­ried up­stairs out of the way.

*

Har­ry got through the next three days by forc­ing him­self to think about his Hand­book of Do-​it-​Your­self Broom­care when­ev­er Aunt Marge start­ed on him. This worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a glazed look, be­cause Aunt Marge start­ed voic­ing the opin­ion that he was men­tal­ly sub­nor­mal.

At last, at long last, the fi­nal evening of Marge’s stay ar­rived. Aunt Petu­nia cooked a fan­cy din­ner and Un­cle Ver­non un­corked sev­er­al bot­tles of wine. They got all the way through the soup and the salmon with­out a sin­gle men­tion of Har­ry’s faults; dur­ing the lemon meringue pie, Un­cle Ver­non bored them all with a long talk about Grun­nings, his drill-​mak­ing com­pa­ny; then Aunt Petu­nia made cof­fee and Un­cle Ver­non brought out a bot­tle of brandy.

‘Can I tempt you, Marge?’

Aunt Marge had al­ready had rather a lot of wine. Her huge face was very red.

‘Just a small one, then,’ she chuck­led. ‘A bit more than that … and a bit more … that’s the boy.’

Dud­ley was eat­ing his fourth slice of pie. Aunt Petu­nia was sip­ping cof­fee with her lit­tle fin­ger stick­ing out. Har­ry re­al­ly want­ed to dis­ap­pear in­to his bed­room, but he met Un­cle Ver­non’s an­gry lit­tle eyes and knew he would have to sit it out.

‘Aah,’ said Aunt Marge, smack­ing her lips and putting the emp­ty brandy glass back down. ‘Ex­cel­lent nosh, Petu­nia. It’s nor­mal­ly just a fry-​up for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look af­ter …’ She burped rich­ly and pat­ted her great tweed stom­ach. ‘Par­don me. But I do like to see a healthy-​sized boy,’ she went on, wink­ing at Dud­ley. ‘You’ll be a prop­er-​sized man, Dud­ders, like your fa­ther. Yes, I’ll have a spot more brandy, Ver­non …’

‘Now, this one here –’

She jerked her head at Har­ry, who felt his stom­ach clench. The Hand­book, he thought quick­ly.

‘This one’s got a mean, runty look about him. You get that with dogs. I had Colonel Fub­ster drown one last year. Rat­ty lit­tle thing it was. Weak. Un­der­bred.’

Har­ry was try­ing to re­mem­ber page twelve of his book: A Charm to Cure Re­luc­tant Re­versers.

‘It all comes down to blood, as I was say­ing the oth­er day. Bad blood will out. Now, I’m say­ing noth­ing against your fam­ily, Petu­nia’ – she pat­ted Aunt Petu­nia’s bony hand with her shov­el-​like one, ‘but your sis­ter was a bad egg. They turn up in the best fam­ilies. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here’s the re­sult right in front of us.’

Har­ry was star­ing at his plate, a fun­ny ring­ing in his ears. Grasp your broom firm­ly by the tail, he thought. But he couldn’t re­mem­ber what came next. Aunt Marge’s voice seemed to be bor­ing in­to him like one of Un­cle Ver­non’s drills.

‘This Pot­ter,’ said Aunt Marge loud­ly, seiz­ing the brandy bot­tle and splash­ing more in­to her glass and over the table­cloth, ‘you nev­er told me what he did?’

Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia were look­ing ex­treme­ly tense. Dud­ley had even looked up from his pie to gape at his par­ents.

‘He – didn’t work,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, with half a glance at Har­ry. ‘Un­em­ployed.’

‘As I ex­pect­ed!’ said Aunt Marge, tak­ing a huge swig of brandy and wip­ing her chin on her sleeve. ‘A no-​ac­count, good-​for-​noth­ing, lazy scrounger who –’

‘He was not,’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly. The ta­ble went very qui­et. Har­ry was shak­ing all over. He had nev­er felt so an­gry in his life.

‘MORE BRANDY!’ yelled Un­cle Ver­non, who had gone very white. He emp­tied the bot­tle in­to Aunt Marge’s glass. ‘You, boy,’ he snarled at Har­ry. ‘Go to bed, go on –’

‘No, Ver­non,’ hic­coughed Aunt Marge, hold­ing up a hand, her tiny blood­shot eyes fixed on Har­ry’s. ‘Go on, boy, go on. Proud of your par­ents, are you? They go and get them­selves killed in a car crash (drunk, I ex­pect) –’

‘They didn’t die in a car crash!’ said Har­ry, who found him­self on his feet.

‘They died in a car crash, you nasty lit­tle liar, and left you to be a bur­den on their de­cent, hard­work­ing rel­atives!’ screamed Aunt Marge, swelling with fury. ‘You are an in­so­lent, un­grate­ful lit­tle –’

But Aunt Marge sud­den­ly stopped speak­ing. For a mo­ment, it looked as though words had failed her. She seemed to be swelling with in­ex­press­ible anger – but the swelling didn’t stop. Her great red face start­ed to ex­pand, her tiny eyes bulged and her mouth stretched too tight­ly for speech. Next sec­ond, sev­er­al but­tons burst from her tweed jack­et and pinged off the walls – she was in­flat­ing like a mon­strous bal­loon, her stom­ach burst­ing free of her tweed waist­band, each of her fin­gers blow­ing up like a sala­mi …

‘MARGE!’ yelled Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia to­geth­er, as Aunt Marge’s whole body be­gan to rise off her chair to­wards the ceil­ing. She was en­tire­ly round, now, like a vast life buoy with pig­gy eyes, and her hands and feet stuck out weird­ly as she drift­ed up in­to the air, mak­ing apoplec­tic pop­ping nois­es. Rip­per came skid­ding in­to the room, bark­ing mad­ly.

‘NOOOOOOO!’

Un­cle Ver­non seized one of Marge’s feet and tried to pull her down again, but was al­most lift­ed from the floor him­self. Next sec­ond, Rip­per had leapt for­ward and sunk his teeth in­to Un­cle Ver­non’s leg.

Har­ry tore from the din­ing room be­fore any­one could stop him, head­ing for the cup­board un­der the stairs. The cup­board door burst mag­ical­ly open as he reached it. In sec­onds, he had heaved his trunk to the front door. He sprint­ed up­stairs and threw him­self un­der the bed, wrenched up the loose floor­board and grabbed the pil­low­case full of his books and birth­day presents. He wrig­gled out, seized Hed­wig’s emp­ty cage and dashed back down­stairs to his trunk, just as Un­cle Ver­non burst out of the din­ing room, his trous­er leg in bloody tat­ters.

‘COME BACK IN HERE!’ he bel­lowed. ‘COME BACK AND PUT HER RIGHT!’

But a reck­less rage had come over Har­ry. He kicked his trunk open, pulled out his wand and point­ed it at Un­cle Ver­non.

‘She de­served it,’ Har­ry said, breath­ing very fast. ‘She de­served what she got. You keep away from me.’

He fum­bled be­hind him for the catch on the door.

‘I’m go­ing,’ Har­ry said. ‘I’ve had enough.’

And next mo­ment, he was out in the dark, qui­et street, heav­ing his heavy trunk be­hind him, Hed­wig’s cage un­der his arm.





