CHAPTER TWENTY


The De­men­tors’ Kiss



Har­ry had nev­er been part of a stranger group. Crook­shanks led the way down the stairs; Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron went next, look­ing like con­tes­tants in a six-​legged race. Next came Pro­fes­sor Snape, drift­ing creep­ily along, his toes hit­ting each stair as they de­scend­ed, held up by his own wand, which was be­ing point­ed at him by Sir­ius. Har­ry and Hermione brought up the rear.

Get­ting back in­to the tun­nel was dif­fi­cult. Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron had to turn side­ways to man­age it; Lupin still had Pet­ti­grew cov­ered with his wand. Har­ry could see them edg­ing awk­ward­ly along the tun­nel in sin­gle file. Crook­shanks was still in the lead. Har­ry went right af­ter Sir­ius, who was still mak­ing Snape drift along ahead of them; he kept bump­ing his lolling head on the low ceil­ing. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion Sir­ius was mak­ing no ef­fort to pre­vent this.

‘You know what this means?’ Sir­ius said abrupt­ly to Har­ry, as they made their slow progress along the tun­nel. ‘Turn­ing Pet­ti­grew in?’

‘You’re free,’ said Har­ry.

‘Yes …’ said Sir­ius. ‘But I’m al­so – I don’t know if any­one ev­er told you – I’m your god­fa­ther.’

‘Yeah, I knew that,’ said Har­ry.

‘Well … your par­ents ap­point­ed me your guardian,’ said Sir­ius stiffly. ‘If any­thing hap­pened to them …’

Har­ry wait­ed. Did Sir­ius mean what he thought he meant?

‘I’ll un­der­stand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and un­cle,’ said Sir­ius. ‘But … well … think about it. Once my name’s cleared … if you want­ed a … a dif­fer­ent home …’

Some sort of ex­plo­sion took place in the pit of Har­ry’s stom­ach.

‘What – live with you?’ he said, ac­ci­den­tal­ly crack­ing his head on a bit of rock pro­trud­ing from the ceil­ing. ‘Leave the Durs­leys?’

‘Of course, I thought you wouldn’t want to,’ said Sir­ius quick­ly. ‘I un­der­stand. I just thought I’d –’

‘Are you mad?’ said Har­ry, his voice eas­ily as croaky as Sir­ius’. ‘Of course I want to leave the Durs­leys! Have you got a house? When can I move in?’

Sir­ius turned right around to look at him; Snape’s head was scrap­ing the ceil­ing but Sir­ius didn’t seem to care.

‘You want to?’ he said. ‘You mean it?’

‘Yeah, I mean it!’ said Har­ry.

Sir­ius’ gaunt face broke in­to the first true smile Har­ry had seen up­on it. The dif­fer­ence it made was startling, as though a per­son ten years younger was shin­ing through the starved mask; for a mo­ment, he was recog­nis­able as the man who had laughed at Har­ry’s par­ents’ wed­ding.

They did not speak again un­til they had reached the end of the tun­nel. Crook­shanks dart­ed up first; he had ev­ident­ly pressed his paw to the knot on the trunk, be­cause Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron clam­bered up­wards with­out any sound of sav­aging branch­es.

Sir­ius saw Snape up through the hole, then stood back for Har­ry and Hermione to pass. At last, all of them were out.

The grounds were very dark now, the on­ly light came from the dis­tant win­dows of the cas­tle. With­out a word, they set off. Pet­ti­grew was still wheez­ing and oc­ca­sion­al­ly whim­per­ing. Har­ry’s mind was buzzing. He was go­ing to leave the Durs­leys. He was go­ing to live with Sir­ius Black, his par­ents’ best friend … he felt dazed … What would hap­pen when he told the Durs­leys he was go­ing to live with the con­vict they’d seen on tele­vi­sion!

‘One wrong move, Pe­ter,’ said Lupin threat­en­ing­ly, ahead. His wand was still point­ed side­ways at Pet­ti­grew’s chest.

Silent­ly they tramped through the grounds, the cas­tle lights grow­ing slow­ly larg­er. Snape was still drift­ing weird­ly ahead of Sir­ius, his chin bump­ing on his chest. And then –

A cloud shift­ed. There were sud­den­ly dim shad­ows on the ground. Their par­ty was bathed in moon­light.

Snape col­lid­ed with Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron, who had stopped abrupt­ly. Sir­ius froze. He flung out an arm to make Har­ry and Hermione stop.

Har­ry could see Lupin’s sil­hou­ette. He had gone rigid. Then his limbs be­gan to shake.

‘Oh my –’ Hermione gasped. ‘He didn’t take his Po­tion tonight! He’s not safe!’

‘Run,’ Sir­ius whis­pered. ‘Run! Now!’

But Har­ry couldn’t run. Ron was chained to Pet­ti­grew and Lupin. He leapt for­wards but Sir­ius caught him around the chest and threw him back.

‘Leave it to me – RUN!’

There was a ter­ri­ble snarling noise. Lupin’s head was length­en­ing. So was his body. His shoul­ders were hunch­ing. Hair was sprout­ing vis­ibly on his face and hands, which were curl­ing in­to clawed paws. Crook­shanks’s fur was on end again, he was back­ing away –

As the were­wolf reared, snap­ping its long jaws, Sir­ius dis­ap­peared from Har­ry’s side. He had trans­formed. The enor­mous, bear-​like dog bound­ed for­wards. As the were­wolf wrenched it­self free of the man­acle bind­ing it, the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it back­wards, away from Ron and Pet­ti­grew. They were locked, jaw to jaw, claws rip­ping at each oth­er –

Har­ry stood, trans­fixed by the sight; too in­tent up­on the bat­tle to no­tice any­thing else. It was Hermione’s scream that alert­ed him –

Pet­ti­grew had dived for Lupin’s dropped wand. Ron, un­steady on his ban­daged leg, fell. There was a bang, a burst of light – and Ron lay mo­tion­less on the ground. An­oth­er bang – Crook­shanks flew in­to the air and back to the earth in a heap.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ Har­ry yelled, point­ing his own wand at Pet­ti­grew; Lupin’s wand flew high in­to the air and out of sight. ‘Stay where you are!’ Har­ry shout­ed, run­ning for­wards.

Too late. Pet­ti­grew had trans­formed. Har­ry saw his bald tail whip through the man­acle on Ron’s out­stretched arm, and heard a scur­ry­ing through the grass.

There was a howl and a rum­bling growl; Har­ry turned to see the were­wolf tak­ing flight; it was gal­lop­ing in­to the for­est –

‘Sir­ius, he’s gone, Pet­ti­grew trans­formed!’ Har­ry yelled.

Sir­ius was bleed­ing; there were gash­es across his muz­zle and back, but at Har­ry’s words he scram­bled up again, and in an in­stant, the sound of his paws was fad­ing to si­lence as he pound­ed away across the grounds.

Har­ry and Hermione dashed over to Ron.

‘What did he do to him?’ Hermione whis­pered. Ron’s eyes were on­ly half-​closed; his mouth hung open. He was def­inite­ly alive, they could hear him breath­ing, but he didn’t seem to recog­nise them.

‘I don’t know.’

Har­ry looked des­per­ate­ly around. Black and Lupin both gone … they had no one but Snape for com­pa­ny, still hang­ing, un­con­scious, in mid-​air.

‘We’d bet­ter get them up to the cas­tle and tell some­one,’ said Har­ry, push­ing his hair out of his eyes, try­ing to think straight. ‘Come –’

But then, out of the dark­ness, they heard a yelp­ing, a whin­ing; a dog in pain …

‘Sir­ius,’ Har­ry mut­tered, star­ing in­to the dark­ness.

He had a mo­ment’s in­de­ci­sion, but there was noth­ing they could do for Ron at the mo­ment, and by the sound of it, Black was in trou­ble –

Har­ry set off at a run, Hermione right be­hind him. The yelp­ing seemed to be com­ing from near the lake. They pelt­ed to­wards it, and Har­ry, run­ning flat out, felt the cold with­out re­al­is­ing what it must mean –

The yelp­ing stopped abrupt­ly. As they reached the lake’s shore they saw why – Sir­ius had turned back in­to a man. He was crouched on all fours, his hands over his head.

‘Nooo,’ he moaned. ‘Noooo …. please …’

And then Har­ry saw them. De­men­tors, at least a hun­dred of them, glid­ing in a black mass around the lake to­wards them. He spun around, the fa­mil­iar, icy cold pen­etrat­ing his in­sides, fog start­ing to ob­scure his vi­sion; more were ap­pear­ing out of the dark­ness on ev­ery side; they were en­cir­cling them …

‘Hermione, think of some­thing hap­py!’ Har­ry yelled, rais­ing his wand, blink­ing fu­ri­ous­ly to try and clear his vi­sion, shak­ing his head to rid it of the faint scream­ing that had start­ed in­side it –

I’m go­ing to live with my god­fa­ther. I’m leav­ing the Durs­leys.

He forced him­self to think of Sir­ius, and on­ly Sir­ius, and be­gan to chant: ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

Black gave a shud­der, rolled over and lay mo­tion­less on the ground, pale as death.

He’ll be all right. I’m go­ing to go and live with him.

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Hermione, help me! Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

‘Ex­pec­to –’ Hermione whis­pered, ‘ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to –’

But she couldn’t do it. The De­men­tors were clos­ing in, bare­ly ten feet from them. They formed a sol­id wall around Har­ry and Hermione, and were get­ting clos­er …

‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’ Har­ry yelled, try­ing to blot the scream­ing from his ears. ‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’

A thin wisp of sil­ver es­caped his wand and hov­ered like mist be­fore him. At the same mo­ment, Har­ry felt Hermione col­lapse next to him. He was alone … com­plete­ly alone …

‘Ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to pa­tron­um –’

Har­ry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was cloud­ing his eyes. With a huge ef­fort, he fought to re­mem­ber – Sir­ius was in­no­cent – in­no­cent – we’ll be OK – I’m go­ing to live with him –

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’ he gasped.

By the fee­ble light of his form­less Pa­tronus, he saw a De­men­tor halt, very close to him. It couldn’t walk through the cloud of sil­ver mist Har­ry had con­jured. A dead, slimy hand slid out from un­der the cloak. It made a ges­ture as though to sweep the Pa­tronus aside.

‘No – no –’ Har­ry gasped. ‘He’s in­no­cent … ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to pa­tron­um –’

He could feel them watch­ing him, hear their rat­tling breath like an evil wind around him. The near­est De­men­tor seemed to be con­sid­er­ing him. Then it raised both its rot­ting hands – and low­ered its hood.

Where there should have been eyes, there was on­ly thin, grey, scabbed skin, stretched blankly over emp­ty sock­ets. But there was a mouth … a gap­ing, shape­less hole, suck­ing the air with the sound of a death-​rat­tle.

A paralysing ter­ror filled Har­ry so that he couldn’t move or speak. His Pa­tronus flick­ered and died.

White fog was blind­ing him. He had to fight … ex­pec­to pa­tron­um … he couldn’t see … and in the dis­tance, he heard the fa­mil­iar scream­ing … ex­pec­to pa­tron­um … he groped in the mist for Sir­ius, and found his arm … they weren’t go­ing to take him …

But a pair of strong, clam­my hands sud­den­ly wrapped them­selves around Har­ry’s neck. They were forc­ing his face up­wards … he could feel its breath … it was go­ing to get rid of him first … he could feel its pu­trid breath … his moth­er was scream­ing in his ears … she was go­ing to be the last thing he ev­er heard –

And then, through the fog that was drown­ing him, he thought he saw a sil­very light, grow­ing brighter and brighter … he felt him­self fall for­wards on­to the grass –

Face down, too weak to move, sick and shak­ing, Har­ry opened his eyes. The blind­ing light was il­lu­mi­nat­ing the grass around him … The scream­ing had stopped, the cold was ebbing away …

Some­thing was driv­ing the De­men­tors back … it was cir­cling around him and Sir­ius and Hermione … the rat­tling, suck­ing sounds of the De­men­tors were fad­ing. They were leav­ing … the air was warm again …

With ev­ery ounce of strength he could muster, Har­ry raised his head a few inch­es and saw an an­imal amidst the light, gal­lop­ing away across the lake. Eyes blurred with sweat, Har­ry tried to make out what it was … it was bright as a uni­corn. Fight­ing to stay con­scious, Har­ry watched it can­ter to a halt as it reached the op­po­site shore. For a mo­ment, Har­ry saw, by its bright­ness, some­body wel­com­ing it back … rais­ing his hand to pat it … some­one who looked strange­ly fa­mil­iar … but it couldn’t be …

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand. He couldn’t think any more. He felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head hit the ground as he faint­ed.





