CHAPTER FOUR


The Leaky Caul­dron



It took Har­ry sev­er­al days to get used to his strange new free­dom. Nev­er be­fore had he been able to get up when­ev­er he want­ed or eat what­ev­er he fan­cied. He could even go wher­ev­er he liked, as long as it was in Di­agon Al­ley, and as this long cob­bled street was packed with the most fas­ci­nat­ing wiz­ard­ing shops in the world, Har­ry felt no de­sire to break his word to Fudge and stray back in­to the Mug­gle world.

Har­ry ate break­fast each morn­ing in the Leaky Caul­dron, where he liked watch­ing the oth­er guests: fun­ny lit­tle witch­es from the coun­try, up for a day’s shop­ping; ven­er­able-​look­ing wiz­ards ar­gu­ing over the lat­est ar­ti­cle in Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day; wild-​look­ing war­locks, rau­cous dwarfs and, once, what looked sus­pi­cious­ly like a hag, who or­dered a plate of raw liv­er from be­hind a thick woollen bal­acla­va.

Af­ter break­fast Har­ry would go out in­to the back yard, take out his wand, tap the third brick from the left above the dust­bin, and stand back as the arch­way in­to Di­agon Al­ley opened in the wall.

Har­ry spent the long sun­ny days ex­plor­ing the shops and eat­ing un­der the bright­ly coloured um­brel­las out­side cafes, where his fel­low din­ers were show­ing each oth­er their pur­chas­es (‘it’s a lu­nascope, old boy – no more mess­ing around with moon charts, see?’) or else dis­cussing the case of Sir­ius Black (‘per­son­al­ly I won’t let any of the chil­dren out alone un­til he’s back in Azk­aban’). Har­ry didn’t have to do his home­work un­der the blan­kets by torch­light any more; now he could sit in the bright sun­shine out­side Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice-​Cream Par­lour, fin­ish­ing all his es­says with oc­ca­sion­al help from Flo­re­an Fortes­cue him­self, who, apart from know­ing a great deal about me­dieval witch-​burn­ings, gave Har­ry free sun­daes ev­ery half-​hour.

Once Har­ry had re­filled his mon­ey bag with gold Galleons, sil­ver Sick­les and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts, he need­ed to ex­er­cise a lot of self-​con­trol not to spend the whole lot at once. He had to keep re­mind­ing him­self that he had five years to go at Hog­warts, and how it would feel to ask the Durs­leys for mon­ey for spell­books, to stop him­self buy­ing a hand­some set of sol­id gold Gob­stones (a wiz­ard­ing game rather like mar­bles, in which the stones squirt­ed a nasty-​smelling liq­uid in­to the oth­er play­er’s face when they lost a point). He was sore­ly tempt­ed, too, by the per­fect, mov­ing mod­el of the galaxy in a large glass ball, which would have meant he nev­er had to take an­oth­er As­tron­omy les­son. But the thing that test­ed Har­ry’s res­olu­tion most ap­peared in his favourite shop, Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies, a week af­ter he’d ar­rived at the Leaky Caul­dron.

Cu­ri­ous to know what the crowd in the shop was star­ing at, Har­ry edged his way in­side and squeezed in amongst the ex­cit­ed witch­es and wiz­ards un­til he glimpsed a new­ly erect­ed podi­um on which was mount­ed the most mag­nif­icent broom he had ev­er seen in his life.

‘Just come out … pro­to­type …’ a square-​jawed wiz­ard was telling his com­pan­ion.

‘It’s the fastest broom in the world, isn’t it, Dad?’ squeaked a boy younger than Har­ry, who was swing­ing off his fa­ther’s arm.

‘Irish In­ter­na­tion­al Side’s just put in an or­der for sev­en of these beau­ties!’ the pro­pri­etor of the shop told the crowd. ‘And they’re favourites for the World Cup!’

A large witch in front of Har­ry moved, and he was able to read the sign next to the broom:



THE FIRE­BOLT



This state-​of-​the-​art rac­ing broom sports a stream­lined, su­perfine han­dle of ash, treat­ed with a di­amond-​hard pol­ish and hand-​num­bered with its own reg­is­tra­tion num­ber. Each in­di­vid­ual­ly se­lect­ed birch twig in the broom­tail has been honed to aero­dy­nam­ic per­fec­tion, giv­ing the Fire­bolt un­sur­pass­able bal­ance and pin­point pre­ci­sion. The Fire­bolt has an ac­cel­er­ation of 0-150 miles an hour in ten sec­onds and in­cor­po­rates an un­break­able brak­ing charm. Price on re­quest.



Price on re­quest … Har­ry didn’t like to think how much gold the Fire­bolt would cost. He had nev­er want­ed any­thing so much in his whole life – but he had nev­er lost a Quid­ditch match on his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, and what was the point in emp­ty­ing his Gringotts vault for the Fire­bolt, when he had a very good broom al­ready? Har­ry didn’t ask for the price, but he re­turned, al­most ev­ery day af­ter that, just to look at the Fire­bolt.

There were, how­ev­er, things that Har­ry need­ed to buy. He went to the Apothe­cary to re­plen­ish his store of po­tions’ in­gre­di­ents, and as his school robes were now sev­er­al inch­es too short in the arm and leg, he vis­it­ed Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Oc­ca­sions and bought new ones. Most im­por­tant of all, he had to buy his new school books, which would in­clude those for his two new sub­jects, Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures and Div­ina­tion.

Har­ry got a sur­prise as he looked in at the book­shop win­dow. In­stead of the usu­al dis­play of gold-​em­bossed spell­books the size of paving slabs, there was a large iron cage be­hind the glass which held about a hun­dred copies of The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters. Torn pages were fly­ing ev­ery­where as the books grap­pled with each oth­er, locked to­geth­er in fu­ri­ous wrestling match­es and snap­ping ag­gres­sive­ly.

Har­ry pulled his book­list out of his pock­et and con­sult­ed it for the first time. The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters was list­ed as the set book for Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures. Now Har­ry un­der­stood why Ha­grid had said it would come in use­ful. He felt re­lieved; he had been won­der­ing whether Ha­grid want­ed help with some ter­ri­fy­ing new pet.

As Har­ry en­tered Flour­ish and Blotts, the man­ag­er came hur­ry­ing to­wards him.

‘Hog­warts?’ he said abrupt­ly. ‘Come to get your new books?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. ‘I need –’

‘Get out of the way,’ said the man­ag­er im­pa­tient­ly, brush­ing Har­ry aside. He drew on a pair of very thick gloves, picked up a large, knob­bly walk­ing stick and pro­ceed­ed to­wards the door of the Mon­ster books’ cage.

‘Hang on,’ said Har­ry quick­ly, ‘I’ve al­ready got one of those.’

‘Have you?’ A look of enor­mous re­lief spread over the man­ag­er’s face. ‘Thank heav­ens for that, I’ve been bit­ten five times al­ready this morn­ing –’

A loud rip­ping noise rent the air; two of the Mon­ster books had seized a third and were pulling it apart.

‘Stop it! Stop it!’ cried the man­ag­er, pok­ing the walk­ing stick through the bars and knock­ing the books apart. ‘I’m nev­er stock­ing them again, nev­er! It’s been bed­lam! I thought we’d seen the worst when we bought two hun­dred copies of The In­vis­ible Book of In­vis­ibil­ity – cost a for­tune, and we nev­er found them … Well, is there any­thing else I can help you with?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, look­ing down his book­list. ‘I need Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture, by Cas­san­dra Vab­latsky.’

‘Ah, start­ing Div­ina­tion, are you?’ said the man­ag­er strip­ping off his gloves and lead­ing Har­ry in­to the back of the shop, where there was a cor­ner de­vot­ed to for­tune-​telling. A small ta­ble was stacked with vol­umes such as Pre­dict­ing the Un­pre­dictable: In­su­late Your­self against Shocks and Bro­ken Balls: When For­tunes Turn Foul.

‘Here you are,’ said the man­ag­er, who had climbed a set of steps to take down a thick, black-​bound book. ‘Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. Very good guide to all your ba­sic for­tune-​telling meth­ods – palm­istry, crys­tal balls, bird en­trails …’

But Har­ry wasn’t lis­ten­ing. His eyes had fall­en on an­oth­er book, which was among a dis­play on a small ta­ble: Death Omens: What to Do When You Know the Worst is Com­ing.

‘Oh, I wouldn’t read that if I were you,’ said the as­sis­tant light­ly, look­ing to see what Har­ry was star­ing at. ‘You’ll start see­ing death omens ev­ery­where, it’s enough to fright­en any­one to death.’

But Har­ry con­tin­ued to stare at the front cov­er of the book; it showed a black dog large as a bear, with gleam­ing eyes. It looked odd­ly fa­mil­iar …

The as­sis­tant pressed Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture in­to Har­ry’s hands.

‘Any­thing else?’ he said.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, tear­ing his eyes away from the dog’s and dazed­ly con­sult­ing his book­list. ‘Er – I need In­ter­me­di­ate Trans­fig­ura­tion and The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade Three.’

Har­ry emerged from Flour­ish and Blotts ten min­utes lat­er with his new books un­der his arms, and made his way back to the Leaky Caul­dron, hard­ly notic­ing where he was go­ing and bump­ing in­to sev­er­al peo­ple.

He tramped up the stairs to his room, went in­side and tipped his books on­to his bed. Some­body had been in to tidy; the win­dows were open and sun was pour­ing in­side. Har­ry could hear the bus­es rolling by in the un­seen Mug­gle street be­hind him, and the sound of the in­vis­ible crowd be­low in Di­agon Al­ley. He caught sight of him­self in the mir­ror over the basin.

‘It can’t have been a death omen,’ he told his re­flec­tion de­fi­ant­ly. ‘I was pan­ick­ing when I saw that thing in Mag­no­lia Cres­cent. It was prob­ably just a stray dog …’

He raised his hand au­to­mat­ical­ly and tried to make his hair lie flat.

‘You’re fight­ing a los­ing bat­tle there, dear,’ said his mir­ror in a wheezy voice.

*

As the days slipped by, Har­ry start­ed look­ing wher­ev­er he went for a sign of Ron or Hermione. Plen­ty of Hog­warts stu­dents were ar­riv­ing in Di­agon Al­ley now, with the start of term so near. Har­ry met Sea­mus Finni­gan and Dean Thomas, his fel­low Gryffind­ors, in Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies, where they, too, were ogling the Fire­bolt; he al­so ran in­to the re­al Neville Long­bot­tom, a round-​faced, for­get­ful boy, out­side Flour­ish and Blotts. Har­ry didn’t stop to chat; Neville ap­peared to have mis­laid his book­list, and was be­ing told off by his very formidable-​look­ing grand­moth­er. Har­ry hoped she nev­er found out that he’d pre­tend­ed to be Neville while on the run from the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

Har­ry woke on the last day of the hol­idays, think­ing that he would at least meet Ron and Hermione to­mor­row, on the Hog­warts Ex­press. He got up, dressed, went for a last look at the Fire­bolt, and was just won­der­ing where he’d have lunch, when some­one yelled his name and he turned.

‘Har­ry! HAR­RY!’

They were there, both of them, sit­ting out­side Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice-​Cream Par­lour; Ron look­ing in­cred­ibly freck­ly Hermione very brown, both wav­ing fran­ti­cal­ly at him.

‘Fi­nal­ly!’ said Ron, grin­ning at Har­ry as he sat down. ‘We went to the Leaky Caul­dron, but they said you’d left, and we went to Flour­ish and Blotts, and Madam Malkin’s, and –’

‘I got all my school stuff last week,’ Har­ry ex­plained. ‘And how come you know I’m stay­ing at the Leaky Caul­dron?’

‘Dad,’ said Ron sim­ply.

Mr Weasley who worked at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, would of course have heard the whole sto­ry of what had hap­pened to Aunt Marge.

‘Did you re­al­ly blow up your aunt, Har­ry?’ said Hermione in a very se­ri­ous voice.

‘I didn’t mean to,’ said Har­ry, while Ron roared with laugh­ter. ‘I just – lost con­trol.’

‘It’s not fun­ny, Ron,’ said Hermione sharply. ‘Hon­est­ly I’m amazed Har­ry wasn’t ex­pelled.’

‘So am I,’ ad­mit­ted Har­ry. ‘For­get ex­pelled, I thought I was go­ing to be ar­rest­ed.’ He looked at Ron. ‘Your dad doesn’t know why Fudge let me off, does he?’

‘Prob­ably ’cause it’s you, isn’t it?’ shrugged Ron, still chuck­ling. ‘Fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter and all that. I’d hate to see what the Min­istry’d do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they’d have to dig me up first, be­cause Mum would’ve killed me. Any­way, you can ask Dad your­self this evening. We’re stay­ing at the Leaky Caul­dron tonight, too! So you can come to King’s Cross with us to­mor­row! Hermione’s there as well!’

Hermione nod­ded, beam­ing. ‘Mum and Dad dropped me off this morn­ing with all my Hog­warts things.’

‘Ex­cel­lent!’ said Har­ry hap­pi­ly. ‘So, have you got all your new books and stuff?’

‘Look at this,’ said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and open­ing it. ‘Brand-​new wand. Four­teen inch­es, wil­low, con­tain­ing one uni­corn tail-​hair. And we’ve got all our books’ – he point­ed at a large bag un­der his chair. ‘What about those Mon­ster books, eh? The as­sis­tant near­ly cried when we said we want­ed two.’

‘What’s all that, Hermione?’ Har­ry asked, point­ing at not one, but three, bulging bags in the chair next to her.

‘Well, I’m tak­ing more new sub­jects than you, aren’t I?’ said Hermione. ‘Those are my books for Arith­man­cy, Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, Div­ina­tion, the Study of An­cient Runes, Mug­gle Stud­ies –’

‘What are you do­ing Mug­gle Stud­ies for?’ said Ron, rolling his eyes at Har­ry. ‘You’re Mug­gle-​born! Your mum and dad are Mug­gles! You al­ready know all about Mug­gles!’

‘But it’ll be fas­ci­nat­ing to study them from the wiz­ard­ing point of view,’ said Hermione earnest­ly.

‘Are you plan­ning to eat or sleep at all this year, Hermione?’ asked Har­ry, while Ron snig­gered. Hermione ig­nored them.

‘I’ve still got ten Galleons,’ she said, check­ing her purse. ‘It’s my birth­day in Septem­ber, and Mum and Dad gave me some mon­ey to get my­self an ear­ly birth­day present.’

‘How about a nice book?’ said Ron in­no­cent­ly.

‘No, I don’t think so,’ said Hermione com­pos­ed­ly. ‘I re­al­ly want an owl. I mean, Har­ry’s got Hed­wig and you’ve got Er­rol –’

‘I haven’t,’ said Ron. ‘Er­rol’s a fam­ily owl. All I’ve got is Scab­bers.’ He pulled his pet rat out of his pock­et. ‘And I want to get him checked over,’ he added, plac­ing Scab­bers on the ta­ble in front of them. ‘I don’t think Egypt agreed with him.’

Scab­bers was look­ing thin­ner than usu­al, and there was a def­inite droop to his whiskers.

‘There’s a mag­ical-​crea­ture shop just over there,’ said Har­ry, who knew Di­agon Al­ley very well by now. ‘You can see if they’ve got any­thing for Scab­bers, and Hermione can get her owl.’

So they paid for their ice-​creams and crossed the street to the Mag­ical Menagerie.

There wasn’t much room in­side. Ev­ery inch of wall was hid­den by cages. It was smelly and very noisy be­cause the oc­cu­pants of these cages were all squeak­ing, squawk­ing, jab­ber­ing or hiss­ing. The witch be­hind the counter was al­ready ad­vis­ing a wiz­ard on the care of dou­ble-​end­ed newts, so Har­ry, Ron and Hermione wait­ed, ex­am­in­ing the cages.

A pair of enor­mous pur­ple toads sat gulp­ing wet­ly and feast­ing on dead blowflies. A gi­gan­tic tor­toise with a jew­el-​en­crust­ed shell was glit­ter­ing near the win­dow. Poi­sonous or­ange snails were ooz­ing slow­ly up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rab­bit kept chang­ing in­to a silk top hat and back again with a loud pop­ping noise. Then there were cats of ev­ery colour, a noisy cage of ravens, a bas­ket of fun­ny cus­tard-​coloured fur­balls that were hum­ming loud­ly, and, on the counter, a vast cage of sleek black rats which were play­ing some sort of skip­ping game us­ing their long bald tails.

The dou­ble-​end­ed newt wiz­ard left and Ron ap­proached the counter.

‘It’s my rat,’ he told the witch. ‘He’s been a bit off-​colour ev­er since I brought him back from Egypt.’

‘Bang him on the counter,’ said the witch, pulling a pair of heavy black spec­ta­cles out of her pock­et.

Ron lift­ed Scab­bers out of his in­side pock­et and placed him next to the cage of his fel­low rats, who stopped their skip­ping tricks and scuf­fled to the wire for a bet­ter look.

Like near­ly ev­ery­thing Ron owned, Scab­bers the rat was sec­ond­hand (he had once be­longed to Ron’s broth­er Per­cy) and a bit bat­tered. Next to the glossy rats in the cage, he looked es­pe­cial­ly woe­be­gone.

‘Hm,’ said the witch, pick­ing Scab­bers up. ‘How old is this rat?’

‘Dun­no,’ said Ron. ‘Quite old. He used to be­long to my broth­er.’

‘What pow­ers does he have?’ said the witch, ex­am­in­ing Scab­bers close­ly.

‘Er –’ said Ron. The truth was that Scab­bers had nev­er shown the faintest trace of in­ter­est­ing pow­ers. The witch’s eyes moved from Scab­bers’s tat­tered left ear to his front paw, which had a toe miss­ing, and tut­ted loud­ly.

‘He’s been through the mill, this one,’ she said.

‘He was like that when Per­cy gave him to me,’ said Ron de­fen­sive­ly.

‘An or­di­nary, com­mon or gar­den rat like this can’t be ex­pect­ed to live longer than three years or so,’ said the witch. ‘Now, if you were look­ing for some­thing a bit more hard-​wear­ing, you might like one of these …’

She in­di­cat­ed the black rats, who prompt­ly start­ed skip­ping again. Ron mut­tered, ‘Show-​offs.’

‘Well, if you don’t want a re­place­ment, you can try this Rat Ton­ic,’ said the witch, reach­ing un­der the counter and bring­ing out a small red bot­tle.

‘OK,’ said Ron. ‘How much – OUCH!’

Ron buck­led as some­thing huge and or­ange came soar­ing from the top of the high­est cage, land­ed on his head and then pro­pelled it­self, spit­ting mad­ly, at Scab­bers.

‘NO, CROOK­SHANKS, NO!’ cried the witch, but Scab­bers shot from be­tween her hands like a bar of soap, land­ed splay-​legged on the floor and then scarpered for the door.

‘Scab­bers!’ Ron shout­ed, har­ing out of the shop af­ter him; Har­ry fol­lowed.

It took them near­ly ten min­utes to find Scab­bers, who had tak­en refuge un­der a wastepa­per bin out­side Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies. Ron stuffed the trem­bling rat back in­to his pock­et and straight­ened up, mas­sag­ing his head.

‘What was that?’

‘It was ei­ther a very big cat or quite a small tiger,’ said Har­ry.

‘Where’s Hermione?’

‘Prob­ably get­ting her owl.’

They made their way back up the crowd­ed street to the Mag­ical Menagerie. As they reached it, Hermione came out, but she wasn’t car­ry­ing an owl. Her arms were clamped tight­ly around the enor­mous gin­ger cat.

‘You bought that mon­ster?’ said Ron, his mouth hang­ing open.

‘He’s gor­geous, isn’t he?’ said Hermione, glow­ing.

That was a mat­ter of opin­ion, thought Har­ry. The cat’s gin­ger fur was thick and fluffy, but it was def­inite­ly a bit bow-​legged and its face looked grumpy and odd­ly squashed, as though it had run head­long in­to a brick wall. Now that Scab­bers was out of sight, how­ev­er, the cat was purring con­tent­ed­ly in Hermione’s arms.

‘Hermione, that thing near­ly scalped me!’ said Ron.

‘He didn’t mean to, did you, Crook­shanks?’ said Hermione.

‘And what about Scab­bers?’ said Ron, point­ing at the lump in his chest pock­et. ‘He needs rest and re­lax­ation! How’s he go­ing to get it with that thing around?’

‘That re­minds me, you for­got your Rat Ton­ic,’ said Hermione, slap­ping the small red bot­tle in­to Ron’s hand. ‘And stop wor­ry­ing, Crook­shanks will be sleep­ing in my dor­mi­to­ry and Scab­bers in yours. What’s the prob­lem? Poor Crook­shanks, that witch said he’d been in there for ages: no one want­ed him.’

‘I won­der why,’ said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly, as they set off to­wards the Leaky Caul­dron.

They found Mr Weasley sit­ting in the bar, read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet.

‘Har­ry!’ he said, smil­ing as he looked up. ‘How are you?’

‘Fine, thanks,’ said Har­ry, as he, Ron and Hermione joined Mr Weasley with all their shop­ping.

Mr Weasley put down his pa­per, and Har­ry saw the now fa­mil­iar pic­ture of Sir­ius Black star­ing up at him.

‘They still haven’t caught him, then?’ he asked.

‘No,’ said Mr Weasley, look­ing ex­treme­ly grave. ‘They’ve pulled us all off our reg­ular jobs at the Min­istry to try and find him, but no luck so far.’

‘Would we get a re­ward if we caught him?’ asked Ron. ‘It’d be good to get some more mon­ey –’

‘Don’t be ridicu­lous, Ron,’ said Mr Weasley, who on clos­er in­spec­tion looked very strained. ‘Black’s not go­ing to be caught by a thir­teen-​year-​old wiz­ard. It’s the Azk­aban guards who’ll get him back, you mark my words.’

At that mo­ment Mrs Weasley en­tered the bar, laden with shop­ping and fol­lowed by the twins, Fred and George, who were about to start their fifth year at Hog­warts, the new­ly elect­ed Head Boy, Per­cy, and the Weasleys’ youngest child and on­ly girl, Gin­ny.

Gin­ny who had al­ways been very tak­en with Har­ry, seemed even more hearti­ly em­bar­rassed than usu­al when she saw him, per­haps be­cause he had saved her life dur­ing their last term at Hog­warts. She went very red and mut­tered ‘hel­lo’ with­out look­ing at him. Per­cy, how­ev­er, held out his hand solemn­ly as though he and Har­ry had nev­er met and said, ‘Har­ry. How nice to see you.’

‘Hel­lo, Per­cy,’ said Har­ry, try­ing not to laugh.

‘I hope you’re well?’ said Per­cy pompous­ly shak­ing hands. It was rather like be­ing in­tro­duced to the may­or.

‘Very well, thanks –’

‘Har­ry!’ said Fred, el­bow­ing Per­cy out of the way and bow­ing deeply. ‘Sim­ply splen­did to see you, old boy –’

‘Mar­vel­lous,’ said George, push­ing Fred aside and seiz­ing Har­ry’s hand in turn. ‘Ab­so­lute­ly spiff­ing.’

Per­cy scowled.

‘That’s enough, now,’ said Mrs Weasley.

‘Mum!’ said Fred, as though he’d on­ly just spot­ted her, and seized her hand, too. ‘How re­al­ly cork­ing to see you –’

‘I said, that’s enough,’ said Mrs Weasley, de­posit­ing her shop­ping in an emp­ty chair. ‘Hel­lo, Har­ry, dear. I sup­pose you’ve heard our ex­cit­ing news?’ She point­ed at the brand-​new sil­ver badge on Per­cy’s chest. ‘Sec­ond Head Boy in the fam­ily!’ she said, swelling with pride.

‘And last,’ Fred mut­tered un­der his breath.

‘I don’t doubt that,’ said Mrs Weasley, frown­ing sud­den­ly. ‘I no­tice they haven’t made you two pre­fects.’

‘What do we want to be pre­fects for?’ said George, look­ing re­volt­ed at the very idea. ‘It’d take all the fun out of life.’

Gin­ny gig­gled.

‘You want to set a bet­ter ex­am­ple to your sis­ter!’ snapped Mrs Weasley.

‘Gin­ny’s got oth­er broth­ers to set her an ex­am­ple, Moth­er,’ said Per­cy lofti­ly. ‘I’m go­ing up to change for din­ner …’

He dis­ap­peared and George heaved a sigh.

‘We tried to shut him in a pyra­mid,’ he told Har­ry. ‘But Mum spot­ted us.’

Din­ner that night was a very en­joy­able af­fair. Tom the innkeep­er put three ta­bles to­geth­er in the par­lour and the sev­en Weasleys, Har­ry and Hermione ate their way through five de­li­cious cours­es.

‘How’re we get­ting to King’s Cross to­mor­row, Dad?’ asked Fred, as they tucked in­to a sump­tu­ous choco­late pud­ding.

‘The Min­istry’s pro­vid­ing a cou­ple of cars,’ said Mr Weasley.

Ev­ery­one looked up at him.

‘Why?’ said Per­cy cu­ri­ous­ly.

‘It’s be­cause of you, Perce,’ said George se­ri­ous­ly. ‘And there’ll be lit­tle flags on the bon­nets, with HB on them –’

‘– for Hu­mungous Big­head,’ said Fred.

Ev­ery­one ex­cept Per­cy and Mrs Weasley snort­ed in­to their pud­ding.

‘Why are the Min­istry pro­vid­ing cars, Fa­ther?’ Per­cy asked again, in a dig­ni­fied voice.

‘Well, as we haven’t got one any more,’ said Mr Weasley, ‘and as I work there, they’re do­ing me a favour …’

His voice was ca­su­al, but Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing that Mr Weasley’s ears had gone red, just like Ron’s did when he was un­der pres­sure.

‘Good job too,’ said Mrs Weasley briskly. ‘Do you re­alise how much lug­gage you’ve all got be­tween you? A nice sight you’d be on the Mug­gle Un­der­ground … You are all packed, aren’t you?’

‘Ron hasn’t put all his new things in his trunk yet,’ said Per­cy, in a long-​suf­fer­ing voice. ‘He’s dumped them on my bed.’

‘You’d bet­ter go and pack prop­er­ly, Ron, be­cause we won’t have much time in the morn­ing,’ Mrs Weasley called down the ta­ble. Ron scowled at Per­cy.

Af­ter din­ner ev­ery­one felt very full and sleepy. One by one they made their way up­stairs to their rooms to check their things for the next day. Ron and Per­cy were next door to Har­ry. He had just closed and locked his own trunk when he heard an­gry voic­es through the wall, and went to see what was go­ing on.

The door of num­ber twelve was ajar and Per­cy was shout­ing.

‘It was here, on the bed­side ta­ble, I took it off for pol­ish­ing –’

‘I haven’t touched it, all right?’ Ron roared back.

‘What’s up?’ said Har­ry.

‘My Head Boy badge has gone,’ said Per­cy, round­ing on Har­ry.

‘So’s Scab­bers’ Rat Ton­ic,’ said Ron, throw­ing things out of his trunk to look. ‘I think I might’ve left it in the bar –’

‘You’re not go­ing any­where till you’ve found my badge!’ yelled Per­cy.

‘I’ll get Scab­bers’ stuff, I’m packed,’ Har­ry said to Ron, and he went down­stairs.

Har­ry was halfway along the pas­sage to the bar, which was now very dark, when he heard an­oth­er pair of an­gry voic­es com­ing from the par­lour. A sec­ond lat­er, he recog­nised them as Mr and Mrs Weasley’s. He hes­itat­ed, not want­ing them to know he’d heard them row­ing, when the sound of his own name made him stop, then move clos­er to the par­lour door.

‘… makes no sense not to tell him,’ Mr Weasley was say­ing heat­ed­ly. ‘Har­ry’s got a right to know. I’ve tried to tell Fudge, but he in­sists on treat­ing Har­ry like a child. He’s thir­teen years old and –’

‘Arthur, the truth would ter­ri­fy him!’ said Mrs Weasley shril­ly. ‘Do you re­al­ly want to send Har­ry back to school with that hang­ing over him? For heav­en’s sake, he’s hap­py not know­ing!’

‘I don’t want to make him mis­er­able, I want to put him on his guard!’ re­tort­ed Mr Weasley. ‘You know what Har­ry and Ron are like, wan­der­ing off by them­selves – they’ve end­ed up in the For­bid­den For­est twice! But Har­ry mustn’t do that this year! When I think what could have hap­pened to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn’t picked him up, I’m pre­pared to bet he would have been dead be­fore the Min­istry found him.’

‘But he’s not dead, he’s fine, so what’s the point –’

‘Mol­ly they say Sir­ius Black’s mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever enough to es­cape from Azk­aban, and that’s sup­posed to be im­pos­si­ble. It’s been three weeks, and no one’s seen hide nor hair of him, and I don’t care what Fudge keeps telling the Dai­ly Prophet, we’re no near­er catch­ing Black than in­vent­ing self-​spelling wands. The on­ly thing we know for sure is what Black’s af­ter –’

‘But Har­ry will be per­fect­ly safe at Hog­warts.’

‘We thought Azk­aban was per­fect­ly safe. If Black can break out of Azk­aban, he can break in­to Hog­warts.’

‘But no one’s re­al­ly sure that Black’s af­ter Har­ry –’

There was a thud on wood, and Har­ry was sure Mr Weasley had banged his fist on the ta­ble.

‘Mol­ly, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn’t re­port it in the press be­cause Fudge want­ed it kept qui­et, but Fudge went out to Azk­aban the night Black es­caped. The guards told Fudge that Black’s been talk­ing in his sleep for a while now. Al­ways the same words: ‘He’s at Hog­warts … he’s at Hog­warts.’ Black is de­ranged, Mol­ly, and he wants Har­ry dead. If you ask me, he thinks mur­der­ing Har­ry will bring You-​Know-​Who back to pow­er. Black lost ev­ery­thing the night Har­ry stopped You-​Know-​Who, and he’s had twelve years alone in Azk­aban to brood on that …’

There was a si­lence. Har­ry leaned still clos­er to the door, des­per­ate to hear more.

‘Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. But you’re for­get­ting Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. I don’t think any­thing could hurt Har­ry at Hog­warts while Dum­ble­dore’s Head­mas­ter. I sup­pose he knows about all this?’

‘Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azk­aban guards sta­tion­ing them­selves around the en­trances to the school grounds. He wasn’t hap­py about it, but he agreed.’

‘Not hap­py? Why shouldn’t he be hap­py, if they’re there to catch Black?’

‘Dum­ble­dore isn’t fond of the Azk­aban guards,’ said Mr Weasley heav­ily. ‘Nor am I, if it comes to that … but when you’re deal­ing with a wiz­ard like Black, you some­times have to join forces with those you’d rather avoid.’

‘If they save Har­ry –’

‘– then I will nev­er say an­oth­er word against them,’ said Mr Weasley weari­ly. ‘It’s late, Mol­ly, we’d bet­ter go up …’

Har­ry heard chairs move. As qui­et­ly as he could, he hur­ried down the pas­sage to the bar and out of sight. The par­lour door opened, and a few sec­onds lat­er foot­steps told him that Mr and Mrs Weasley were climb­ing the stairs.

The bot­tle of rat ton­ic was ly­ing un­der the ta­ble they had sat at ear­li­er. Har­ry wait­ed un­til he heard Mr and Mrs Weasley’s bed­room door close, then head­ed back up­stairs with the bot­tle.

Fred and George were crouch­ing in the shad­ows on the land­ing, heav­ing with laugh­ter as they lis­tened to Per­cy dis­man­tling his and Ron’s room in the search for his badge.

‘We’ve got it,’ Fred whis­pered to Har­ry. ‘We’ve been im­prov­ing it.’

The badge now read Big­head Boy, Har­ry forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat ton­ic, then shut him­self in his room and lay down on his bed.

So Sir­ius Black was af­ter him. That ex­plained ev­ery­thing. Fudge had been le­nient with him be­cause he was so re­lieved to find him alive. He’d made Har­ry promise to stay in Di­agon Al­ley where there were plen­ty of wiz­ards to keep an eye on him. And he was send­ing two Min­istry cars to take them all to the sta­tion to­mor­row, so that the Weasleys could look af­ter Har­ry un­til he was on the train.

Har­ry lay lis­ten­ing to the muf­fled shout­ing next door and won­dered why he didn’t feel more scared. Sir­ius Black had mur­dered thir­teen peo­ple with one curse; Mr and Mrs Weasley ob­vi­ous­ly thought Har­ry would be pan­ic-​strick­en if he knew the truth. But Har­ry hap­pened to agree whole-​heart­ed­ly with Mrs Weasley that the safest place on earth was wher­ev­er Al­bus Dum­ble­dore hap­pened to be. Didn’t peo­ple al­ways say that Dum­ble­dore was the on­ly per­son Lord Volde­mort had ev­er been afraid of? Sure­ly Black, as Volde­mort’s right-​hand man, would be just as fright­ened of him?

And then there were these Azk­aban guards ev­ery­one kept talk­ing about. They seemed to scare most peo­ple sense­less, and if they were sta­tioned all around the school, Black’s chances of get­ting in­side seemed very re­mote.

No, all in all, the thing that both­ered Har­ry most was the fact that his chances of vis­it­ing Hogsmeade now looked like ze­ro. No­body would want Har­ry to leave the safe­ty of the cas­tle un­til Black was caught; in fact, Har­ry sus­pect­ed his ev­ery move would be care­ful­ly watched un­til the dan­ger had passed.

He scowled at the dark ceil­ing. Did they think he couldn’t look af­ter him­self? He’d es­caped Lord Volde­mort three times, he wasn’t com­plete­ly use­less …

Un­bid­den, the im­age of the beast in the shad­ows of Mag­no­lia Cres­cent crossed his mind. What to do when you know the worst is com­ing …

‘I’m not go­ing to be mur­dered,’ Har­ry said out loud.

‘That’s the spir­it, dear,’ said his mir­ror sleep­ily.
