CHAPTER FIVE


The De­men­tor



Tom woke Har­ry next morn­ing with his usu­al tooth­less grin and a cup of tea. Har­ry got dressed and was just per­suad­ing a dis­grun­tled Hed­wig to get back in­to her cage when Ron banged his way in­to the room, pulling a sweat­shirt over his head and look­ing ir­ri­ta­ble.

‘The soon­er we get on the train, the bet­ter,’ he said. ‘At least I can get away from Per­cy at Hog­warts. Now he’s ac­cus­ing me of drip­ping tea on his pho­to of Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter. You know,’ Ron gri­maced, ‘his girl­friend. She’s hid­den her face un­der the frame be­cause her nose has gone all blotchy …’

‘I’ve got some­thing to tell you,’ Har­ry be­gan, but they were in­ter­rupt­ed by Fred and George, who had looked in to con­grat­ulate Ron on in­fu­ri­at­ing Per­cy again.

They head­ed down to break­fast, where Mr Weasley was read­ing the front page of the Dai­ly Prophet with a fur­rowed brow and Mrs Weasley was telling Hermione and Gin­ny about a Love Po­tion she’d made as a young girl. All three of them were rather gig­gly.

‘What were you say­ing?’ Ron asked Har­ry, as they sat down.

‘Lat­er,’ Har­ry mut­tered, as Per­cy stormed in.

Har­ry had no chance to speak to Ron or Hermione in the chaos of leav­ing; they were too busy heav­ing all their trunks down the Leaky Caul­dron’s nar­row stair­case and pil­ing them up near the door, with Hed­wig and Her­mes, Per­cy’s screech owl, perched on top in their cages. A small wick­er­work bas­ket stood be­side the heap of trunks, spit­ting loud­ly.

‘It’s all right, Crook­shanks,’ Hermione cooed through the wick­er­work, ‘I’ll let you out on the train.’

‘You won’t,’ snapped Ron. ‘What about poor Scab­bers, eh?’

He point­ed at his chest, where a large lump in­di­cat­ed that Scab­bers was curled up in his pock­et.

Mr Weasley, who had been out­side wait­ing for the Min­istry cars, stuck his head in­side.

‘They’re here,’ he said. ‘Har­ry, come on.’

Mr Weasley marched Har­ry across the short stretch of pave­ment to­wards the first of two old-​fash­ioned dark green cars, each of which was driv­en by a furtive-​look­ing wiz­ard, wear­ing a suit of emer­ald vel­vet.

‘In you get, Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley, glanc­ing up and down the crowd­ed street.

Har­ry got in­to the back of the car, and was short­ly joined by Hermione, Ron and, to Ron’s dis­gust, Per­cy.

The jour­ney to King’s Cross was very un­event­ful com­pared to Har­ry’s trip on the Knight Bus. The Min­istry of Mag­ic cars seemed al­most or­di­nary, though Har­ry no­ticed that they could slide through gaps that Un­cle Ver­non’s new com­pa­ny car cer­tain­ly couldn’t have man­aged. They reached King’s Cross with twen­ty min­utes to spare; the Min­istry drivers found them trol­leys, un­load­ed their trunks, touched their hats to Mr Weasley and drove away, some­how man­ag­ing to jump to the head of an un­mov­ing queue for the traf­fic lights.

Mr Weasley kept close to Har­ry’s el­bow all the way in­to the sta­tion.

‘Right then,’ he said, glanc­ing around them. ‘Let’s do this in pairs, as there are so many of us. I’ll go through first with Har­ry.’

Mr Weasley strolled to­wards the bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten, push­ing Har­ry’s trol­ley and ap­par­ent­ly very in­ter­est­ed in the In­ter­Ci­ty 125 that had just ar­rived at plat­form nine. With a mean­ing­ful look at Har­ry, he leaned ca­su­al­ly against the bar­ri­er. Har­ry im­itat­ed him.

Next mo­ment, they had fall­en side­ways through the sol­id met­al on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters and looked up to see the Hog­warts Ex­press, a scar­let steam en­gine, puff­ing smoke over a plat­form packed with witch­es and wiz­ards see­ing their chil­dren on­to the train.

Per­cy and Gin­ny sud­den­ly ap­peared be­hind Har­ry. They were pant­ing, and had ap­par­ent­ly tak­en the bar­ri­er at a run.

‘Ah, there’s Pene­lope!’ said Per­cy, smooth­ing his hair and go­ing pink again. Gin­ny caught Har­ry’s eye and they both turned away to hide their laugh­ter as Per­cy strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walk­ing with his chest thrown out so that she couldn’t miss his shiny badge.

Once the re­main­ing Weasleys and Hermione had joined them, Har­ry and Mr Weasley led the way to the end of the train, past packed com­part­ments, to a car­riage that looked quite emp­ty. They load­ed the trunks on­to it, stowed Hed­wig and Crook­shanks in the lug­gage rack, then went back out­side to say good­bye to Mr and Mrs Weasley.

Mrs Weasley kissed all her chil­dren, then Hermione, and fi­nal­ly, Har­ry. He was em­bar­rassed, but re­al­ly quite pleased, when she gave him an ex­tra hug.

‘Do take care, won’t you, Har­ry?’ she said as she straight­ened up, her eyes odd­ly bright. Then she opened her enor­mous hand­bag and said, ‘I’ve made you all sand­wich­es. Here you are, Ron … no, they’re not corned beef … Fred? Where’s Fred? Here you are, dear …’

‘Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley qui­et­ly, ‘come over here a mo­ment.’

He jerked his head to­wards a pil­lar, and Har­ry fol­lowed him be­hind it, leav­ing the oth­ers crowd­ed around Mrs Weasley.

‘There’s some­thing I’ve got to tell you be­fore you leave –’ said Mr Weasley, in a tense voice.

‘It’s all right, Mr Weasley,’ said Har­ry, ‘I al­ready know.’

‘You know? How could you know?’

‘I – er – I heard you and Mrs Weasley talk­ing last night. I couldn’t help hear­ing,’ Har­ry added quick­ly. ‘Sor­ry –’

‘That’s not the way I’d have cho­sen for you to find out,’ said Mr Weasley, look­ing anx­ious.

‘No – hon­est­ly, it’s OK. This way, you haven’t bro­ken your word to Fudge and I know what’s go­ing on.’

‘Har­ry, you must be very scared –’

‘I’m not,’ said Har­ry sin­cere­ly. ‘Re­al­ly,’ he added, be­cause Mr Weasley was look­ing dis­be­liev­ing. ‘I’m not try­ing to be a hero, but se­ri­ous­ly, Sir­ius Black can’t be worse than Volde­mort, can he?’

Mr Weasley flinched at the sound of the name, but over­looked it.

‘Har­ry, I knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff than Fudge seems to think, and I’m ob­vi­ous­ly pleased that you’re not scared, but –’

‘Arthur!’ called Mrs Weasley, who was now shep­herd­ing the rest on­to the train. ‘Arthur, what are you do­ing? It’s about to go!’

‘He’s com­ing, Mol­ly!’ said Mr Weasley, but he turned back to Har­ry and kept talk­ing in a low­er and more hur­ried voice. ‘Lis­ten, I want you to give me your word –’

‘– that I’ll be a good boy and stay in the cas­tle?’ said Har­ry gloomi­ly.

‘Not en­tire­ly’ said Mr Weasley, who looked more se­ri­ous than Har­ry had ev­er seen him. ‘Har­ry, swear to me you won’t go look­ing for Black.’

Har­ry stared. ‘What?’

There was a loud whis­tle. Guards were walk­ing along the train, slam­ming all the doors shut.

‘Promise me, Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley, talk­ing more quick­ly still, ‘that what­ev­er hap­pens –’

‘Why would I go look­ing for some­one I know wants to kill me?’ said Har­ry blankly.

‘Swear to me that what­ev­er you might hear –’

‘Arthur, quick­ly!’ cried Mrs Weasley.

Steam was bil­low­ing from the train; it had start­ed to move. Har­ry ran to the com­part­ment door and Ron threw it open and stood back to let him on. They leaned out of the win­dow and waved at Mr and Mrs Weasley un­til the train turned a cor­ner and blocked them from view.

‘I need to talk to you in pri­vate,’ Har­ry mut­tered to Ron and Hermione as the train picked up speed.

‘Go away, Gin­ny’ said Ron.

‘Oh, that’s nice,’ said Gin­ny huffi­ly, and she stalked off.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione set off down the cor­ri­dor, look­ing for an emp­ty com­part­ment, but all were full ex­cept for the one at the very end of the train.

This on­ly had one oc­cu­pant, a man sit­ting fast asleep next to the win­dow. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione checked on the thresh­old. The Hog­warts Ex­press was usu­al­ly re­served for stu­dents and they had nev­er seen an adult there be­fore, ex­cept for the witch who pushed the food trol­ley.

The stranger was wear­ing an ex­treme­ly shab­by set of wiz­ard’s robes which had been darned in sev­er­al places. He looked ill and ex­haust­ed. Though quite young, his light-​brown hair was flecked with grey.

‘Who d’you reck­on he is?’ Ron hissed, as they sat down and slid the door shut, tak­ing the seats fur­thest away from the win­dow.

‘Pro­fes­sor R. J. Lupin,’ whis­pered Hermione at once.

‘How d’you know that?’

‘It’s on his case,’ replied Hermione, point­ing at the lug­gage rack over the man’s head, where there was a small, bat­tered case held to­geth­er with a large quan­ti­ty of neat­ly knot­ted string. The name ‘Pro­fes­sor R. J. Lupin’ was stamped across one cor­ner in peel­ing let­ters.

‘Won­der what he teach­es?’ said Ron, frown­ing at Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s pal­lid pro­file.

‘That’s ob­vi­ous,’ whis­pered Hermione. ‘There’s on­ly one va­can­cy, isn’t there? De­fence Against the Dark Arts.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had al­ready had two De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­ers, both of whom had on­ly last­ed one year. There were ru­mours that the job was jinxed.

‘Well, I hope he’s up to it,’ said Ron doubt­ful­ly. ‘He looks like one good hex would fin­ish him off, doesn’t he? Any­way …’ he turned to Har­ry, ‘what were you go­ing to tell us?’

Har­ry ex­plained all about Mr and Mrs Weasley’s ar­gu­ment and the warn­ing Mr Weasley had just giv­en him. When he’d fin­ished, Ron looked thun­der­struck, and Hermione had her hands over her mouth. She fi­nal­ly low­ered them to say, ‘Sir­ius Black es­caped to come af­ter you? Oh, Har­ry … you’ll have to be re­al­ly, re­al­ly care­ful. Don’t go look­ing for trou­ble, Har­ry …’

‘I don’t go look­ing for trou­ble,’ said Har­ry, net­tled. ‘Trou­ble usu­al­ly finds me.’

‘How thick would Har­ry have to be, to go look­ing for a nut­ter who wants to kill him?’ said Ron shak­ily.

They were tak­ing the news worse than Har­ry had ex­pect­ed. Both Ron and Hermione seemed to be much more fright­ened of Black than he was.

‘No one knows how he got out of Azk­aban,’ said Ron un­com­fort­ably. ‘No one’s ev­er done it be­fore. And he was a top-​se­cu­ri­ty pris­on­er, too.’

‘But they’ll catch him, won’t they?’ said Hermione earnest­ly. ‘I mean, they’ve got all the Mug­gles look­ing out for him, too …’

‘What’s that noise?’ said Ron sud­den­ly.

A faint, tin­ny sort of whis­tle was com­ing from some­where. They looked all around the com­part­ment.

‘It’s com­ing from your trunk, Har­ry’ said Ron, stand­ing up and reach­ing in­to the lug­gage rack. A mo­ment lat­er he had pulled the Pock­et Sneako­scope out from be­tween Har­ry’s robes. It was spin­ning very fast in the palm of Ron’s hand, and glow­ing bril­liant­ly.

‘Is that a Sneako­scope?’ said Hermione in­ter­est­ed­ly, stand­ing up for a bet­ter look.

‘Yeah … mind you, it’s a very cheap one,’ Ron said. ‘It went hay­wire just as I was ty­ing it to Er­rol’s leg to send it to Har­ry.’

‘Were you do­ing any­thing un­trust­wor­thy at the time?’ said Hermione shrewd­ly.

‘No! Well … I wasn’t sup­posed to be us­ing Er­rol. You know he’s not re­al­ly up to long jour­neys … but how else was I sup­posed to get Har­ry’s present to him?’

‘Stick it back in the trunk,’ Har­ry ad­vised, as the Sneako­scope whis­tled pierc­ing­ly, ‘or it’ll wake him up.’

He nod­ded to­wards Pro­fes­sor Lupin. Ron stuffed the Sneako­scope in­to a par­tic­ular­ly hor­ri­ble pair of Un­cle Ver­non’s old socks, which dead­ened the sound, then closed the lid of the trunk on it.

‘We could get it checked in Hogsmeade,’ said Ron, sit­ting back down. ‘They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, mag­ical in­stru­ments and stuff, Fred and George told me.’

‘Do you know much about Hogsmeade?’ asked Hermione keen­ly. ‘I’ve read it’s the on­ly en­tire­ly non-​Mug­gle set­tle­ment in Britain –’

‘Yeah, I think it is,’ said Ron in an off­hand sort of way, ‘but that’s not why I want to go. I just want to get in­side Hon­ey­dukes!’

‘What’s that?’ said Hermione.

‘It’s this sweet­shop,’ said Ron, a dreamy look com­ing over his face, ‘where they’ve got ev­ery­thing … Pep­per Imps – they make you smoke at the mouth – and great fat Chocoballs full of straw­ber­ry mousse and clot­ted cream, and re­al­ly ex­cel­lent sug­ar quills which you can suck in class and just look like you’re think­ing what to write next –’

‘But Hogsmeade’s a very in­ter­est­ing place, isn’t it?’ Hermione pressed on ea­ger­ly. ‘In Sites of His­tor­ical Sor­cery it says the inn was the head­quar­ters for the 1612 gob­lin re­bel­lion, and the Shriek­ing Shack’s sup­posed to be the most severe­ly haunt­ed build­ing in Britain –’

‘– and mas­sive sher­bert balls that make you lev­itate a few inch­es off the ground while you’re suck­ing them,’ said Ron, who was plain­ly not lis­ten­ing to a word Hermione was say­ing.

Hermione looked around at Har­ry.

‘Won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and ex­plore Hogsmeade?’

‘’Spect it will,’ said Har­ry heav­ily. ‘You’ll have to tell me when you’ve found out.’

‘What d’you mean?’ said Ron.

‘I can’t go. The Durs­leys didn’t sign my per­mis­sion form, and Fudge wouldn’t, ei­ther.’

Ron looked hor­ri­fied.

‘You’re not al­lowed to come? But – no way – McG­ona­gall or some­one will give you per­mis­sion –’

Har­ry gave a hol­low laugh. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, head of Gryffind­or house, was very strict.

‘– or we can ask Fred and George, they know ev­ery se­cret pas­sage out of the cas­tle –’

‘Ron!’ said Hermione sharply. ‘I don’t think Har­ry should be sneak­ing out of school with Black on the loose –’

‘Yeah, I ex­pect that’s what McG­ona­gall will say when I ask for per­mis­sion,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

‘But if we’re with him,’ said Ron spirit­ed­ly to Hermione, ‘Black wouldn’t dare –’

‘Oh, Ron, don’t talk rub­bish,’ snapped Hermione. ‘Black’s al­ready mur­dered a whole bunch of peo­ple in the mid­dle of a crowd­ed street, do you re­al­ly think he’s go­ing to wor­ry about at­tack­ing Har­ry just be­cause we’re there?’

She was fum­bling with the straps of Crook­shanks’ bas­ket as she spoke.

‘Don’t let that thing out!’ Ron said, but too late; Crook­shanks leapt light­ly from the bas­ket, stretched, yawned, and sprang on­to Ron’s knees; the lump in Ron’s pock­et trem­bled and he shoved Crook­shanks an­gri­ly away.

‘Get out of it!’

‘Ron, don’t!’ said Hermione an­gri­ly.

Ron was about to an­swer back when Pro­fes­sor Lupin stirred. They watched him ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, but he sim­ply turned his head the oth­er way, mouth slight­ly open, and slept on.

The Hog­warts Ex­press moved steadi­ly north and the scenery out­side the win­dow be­came wilder and dark­er while the clouds over­head thick­ened. Peo­ple were chas­ing back­wards and for­wards past the door of their com­part­ment. Crook­shanks had now set­tled in an emp­ty seat, his squashed face turned to­wards Ron, his yel­low eyes on Ron’s top pock­et.

At one o’clock the plump witch with the food trol­ley ar­rived at the com­part­ment door.

‘D’you think we should wake him up?’ Ron asked awk­ward­ly, nod­ding to­wards Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘He looks like he could do with some food.’

Hermione ap­proached Pro­fes­sor Lupin cau­tious­ly.

‘Er – Pro­fes­sor?’ she said. ‘Ex­cuse me – Pro­fes­sor?’

He didn’t move.

‘Don’t wor­ry, dear,’ said the witch, as she hand­ed Har­ry a large stack of caul­dron cakes. ‘If he’s hun­gry when he wakes, I’ll be up front with the driv­er.’

‘I sup­pose he is asleep?’ said Ron qui­et­ly, as the witch slid the com­part­ment door closed. ‘I mean – he hasn’t died, has he?’

‘No, no, he’s breath­ing,’ whis­pered Hermione, tak­ing the caul­dron cake Har­ry passed her.

He might not be very good com­pa­ny, but Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s pres­ence in their com­part­ment had its us­es. Mid-​af­ter­noon, just as it had start­ed to rain, blur­ring the rolling hills out­side the win­dow, they heard foot­steps in the cor­ri­dor again, and their three least favourite peo­ple ap­peared at the door: Dra­co Mal­foy, flanked by his cronies, Vin­cent Crabbe and Gre­go­ry Goyle.

Dra­co Mal­foy and Har­ry had been en­emies ev­er since they had met on their very first train jour­ney to Hog­warts. Mal­foy, who had a pale, point­ed, sneer­ing face, was in Slytherin house; he played Seek­er on the Slytherin Quid­ditch team, the same po­si­tion that Har­ry played on the Gryffind­or team. Crabbe and Goyle seemed to ex­ist to do Mal­foy’s bid­ding. They were both wide and mus­cly; Crabbe was the taller, with a pud­ding-​basin hair­cut and a very thick neck; Goyle had short, bristly hair and long, go­ril­la arms.

‘Well, look who it is,’ said Mal­foy in his usu­al lazy drawl, pulling open the com­part­ment door. ‘Pot­ty and the Weasel.’

Crabbe and Goyle chuck­led trol­lish­ly.

‘I heard your fa­ther fi­nal­ly got his hands on some gold this sum­mer, Weasley,’ said Mal­foy. ‘Did your moth­er die of shock?’

Ron stood up so quick­ly he knocked Crook­shanks’ bas­ket to the floor. Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave a snort.

‘Who’s that?’ said Mal­foy, tak­ing an au­to­mat­ic step back­wards as he spot­ted Lupin.

‘New teach­er,’ said Har­ry, who had got to his feet, too, in case he need­ed to hold Ron back. ‘What were you say­ing, Mal­foy?’

Mal­foy’s pale eyes nar­rowed; he wasn’t fool enough to pick a fight right un­der a teach­er’s nose.

‘C’mon,’ he mut­tered re­sent­ful­ly to Crabbe and Goyle, and they dis­ap­peared.

Har­ry and Ron sat down again, Ron mas­sag­ing his knuck­les.

‘I’m not go­ing to take any rub­bish from Mal­foy this year,’ he said an­gri­ly. ‘I mean it. If he makes one more crack about my fam­ily, I’m go­ing to get hold of his head and –’

Ron made a vi­olent ges­ture in mid-​air.

‘Ron,’ hissed Hermione, point­ing at Pro­fes­sor Lupin, ‘be care­ful …’

But Pro­fes­sor Lupin was still fast asleep.

The rain thick­ened as the train sped yet fur­ther north; the win­dows were now a sol­id, shim­mer­ing grey, which grad­ual­ly dark­ened un­til lanterns flick­ered in­to life all along the cor­ri­dors and over the lug­gage racks. The train rat­tled, the rain ham­mered, the wind roared, but still, Pro­fes­sor Lupin slept.

‘We must be near­ly there,’ said Ron, lean­ing for­ward to look past Pro­fes­sor Lupin at the now com­plete­ly black win­dow.

The words had hard­ly left him when the train start­ed to slow down.

‘Bril­liant,’ said Ron, get­ting up and walk­ing care­ful­ly past Pro­fes­sor Lupin to try and see out­side. ‘I’m starv­ing, I want to get to the feast …’

‘We can’t be there yet,’ said Hermione, check­ing her watch.

‘So why’re we stop­ping?’

The train was get­ting slow­er and. slow­er.. As the noise of the pis­tons fell away, the wind and rain sound­ed loud­er than ev­er against the win­dows.

Har­ry, who was near­est the door, got up to look in­to the cor­ri­dor. All along the car­riage, heads were stick­ing cu­ri­ous­ly out of their com­part­ments.

The train came to a stop with a jolt and dis­tant thuds and bangs told them that lug­gage had fall­en out of the racks. Then, with­out warn­ing, all the lamps went out and they were plunged in­to to­tal dark­ness.

‘What’s go­ing on?’ said Ron’s voice from be­hind Har­ry.

‘Ouch!’ gasped Hermione. ‘Ron, that was my foot!’

Har­ry felt his way back to his seat.

‘D’you think we’ve bro­ken down?’

‘Dun­no …’

There was a squeak­ing sound, and Har­ry saw the dim black out­line of Ron, wip­ing a patch clean on the win­dow and peer­ing out.

‘There’s some­thing mov­ing out there,’ Ron said. ‘I think peo­ple are com­ing aboard …’

The com­part­ment door sud­den­ly opened and some­one fell painful­ly over Har­ry’s legs.

‘Sor­ry! D’you know what’s go­ing on? Ouch! Sor­ry –’

‘Hul­lo, Neville,’ said Har­ry, feel­ing around in the dark and pulling Neville up by his cloak.

‘Har­ry? Is that you? What’s hap­pen­ing?’

‘No idea! Sit down –’

There was a loud hiss­ing and a yelp of pain; Neville had tried to sit on Crook­shanks.

‘I’m go­ing to go and ask the driv­er what’s go­ing on,’ came Hermione’s voice. Har­ry felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again and then a thud and two loud squeals of pain.

‘Who’s that?’

‘Who’s that?’

‘Gin­ny?’

‘Hermione?’

‘What are you do­ing?’

‘I was look­ing for Ron –’

‘Come in and sit down –’

‘Not here!’ said Har­ry hur­ried­ly. ‘I’m here!’

‘Ouch!’ said Neville.

‘Qui­et!’ said a hoarse voice sud­den­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin ap­peared to have wo­ken up at last. Har­ry could hear move­ments in his cor­ner. None of them spoke.

There was a soft, crack­ling noise and a shiv­er­ing light filled the com­part­ment. Pro­fes­sor Lupin ap­peared to be hold­ing a hand­ful of flames. They il­lu­mi­nat­ed his tired grey face, but his eyes looked alert and wary.

‘Stay where you are,’ he said, in the same hoarse voice, and he got slow­ly to his feet with his hand­ful of fire held out in front of him.

But the door slid slow­ly open be­fore Lupin could reach it.

Stand­ing in the door­way, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the shiv­er­ing flames in Lupin’s hand, was a cloaked fig­ure that tow­ered to the ceil­ing. Its face was com­plete­ly hid­den be­neath its hood. Har­ry’s eyes dart­ed down­wards, and what he saw made his stom­ach con­tract. There was a hand pro­trud­ing from the cloak and it was glis­ten­ing, grey­ish, slimy-​look­ing and scabbed, like some­thing dead that had de­cayed in wa­ter …

It was vis­ible on­ly for a split sec­ond. As though the crea­ture be­neath the cloak sensed Har­ry’s gaze, the hand was sud­den­ly with­drawn in­to the folds of the black ma­te­ri­al.

And then the thing be­neath the hood, what­ev­er it was, drew a long, slow, rat­tling breath, as though it was try­ing to suck some­thing more than air from its sur­round­ings.

An in­tense cold swept over them all. Har­ry felt his own breath catch in his chest. The cold went deep­er than his skin. It was in­side his chest, it was in­side his very heart …

Har­ry’s eyes rolled up in­to his head. He couldn’t see. He was drown­ing in cold. There was a rush­ing in his ears as though of wa­ter. He was be­ing dragged down­wards, the roar­ing grow­ing loud­er …

And then, from far away, he heard scream­ing, ter­ri­ble, ter­ri­fied, plead­ing screams. He want­ed to help who­ev­er it was, he tried to move his arms, but couldn’t … a thick white fog was swirling around him, in­side him –

‘Har­ry! Har­ry! Are you all right?’

Some­one was slap­ping his face.

‘W-​what?’

Har­ry opened his eyes. There were lanterns above him, and the floor was shak­ing – the Hog­warts Ex­press was mov­ing again and the lights had come back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat on­to the floor. Ron and Hermione were kneel­ing next to him, and above them he could see Neville and Pro­fes­sor Lupin watch­ing. Har­ry felt very sick; when he put up his hand to push his glass­es back on, he felt cold sweat on his face.

Ron and Hermione heaved him back on­to his seat.

‘Are you OK?’ Ron asked ner­vous­ly.

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, look­ing quick­ly to­wards the door. The hood­ed crea­ture had van­ished. ‘What hap­pened? Where’s that – that thing? Who screamed?’

‘No one screamed,’ said Ron, more ner­vous­ly still.

Har­ry looked around the bright com­part­ment. Gin­ny and Neville looked back at him, both very pale.

‘But I heard scream­ing –’

A loud snap made them all jump. Pro­fes­sor Lupin was break­ing an enor­mous slab of choco­late in­to pieces.

‘Here,’ he said to Har­ry, hand­ing him a par­tic­ular­ly large piece. ‘Eat it. It’ll help.’

Har­ry took the choco­late but didn’t eat it.

‘What was that thing?’ he asked Lupin.

‘A De­men­tor,’ said Lupin, who was now giv­ing choco­late to ev­ery­one else. ‘One of the De­men­tors of Azk­aban.’

Ev­ery­one stared at him. Pro­fes­sor Lupin crum­pled up the emp­ty choco­late wrap­per and put it in his pock­et.

‘Eat,’ he re­peat­ed. ‘It’ll help. I need to speak to the driv­er, ex­cuse me …’

He strolled past Har­ry and dis­ap­peared in­to the cor­ri­dor.

‘Are you sure you’re OK, Har­ry?’ said Hermione, watch­ing Har­ry anx­ious­ly.

‘I don’t get it … what hap­pened?’ said Har­ry, wip­ing more sweat off his face.

‘Well – that thing – the De­men­tor – stood there and looked around (I mean, I think it did, I couldn’t see its face) – and you – you –’

‘I thought you were hav­ing a fit or some­thing,’ said Ron, who still looked scared. ‘You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and start­ed twitch­ing –’

‘And Pro­fes­sor Lupin stepped over you, and walked to­wards the De­men­tor, and pulled out his wand,’ said Hermione. ‘And he said, ‘None of us is hid­ing Sir­ius Black un­der our cloaks. Go.’ But the De­men­tor didn’t move, so Lupin mut­tered some­thing, and a sil­very thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned round and sort of glid­ed away …’

‘It was hor­ri­ble,’ said Neville, in a high­er voice than usu­al. ‘Did you feel how cold it went when it came in?’

‘I felt weird,’ said Ron, shift­ing his shoul­ders un­com­fort­ably. ‘Like I’d nev­er be cheer­ful again …’

Gin­ny, who was hud­dled in her cor­ner look­ing near­ly as bad as Har­ry felt, gave a small sob; Hermione went over and put a com­fort­ing arm around her.

‘But didn’t any of you – fall off your seats?’ said Har­ry awk­ward­ly.

‘No,’ said Ron, look­ing anx­ious­ly at Har­ry again. ‘Gin­ny was shak­ing like mad, though …’

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand. He felt weak and shiv­ery, as though he was re­cov­er­ing from a bad bout of flu; he al­so felt the be­gin­nings of shame. Why had he gone to pieces like that, when no one else had?

Pro­fes­sor Lupin had come back. He paused as he en­tered, looked around and said, with a small smile, ‘I haven’t poi­soned that choco­late, you know …’

Har­ry took a bite and to his great sur­prise felt warmth spread sud­den­ly to the tips of his fin­gers and toes.

‘We’ll be at Hog­warts in ten min­utes,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Are you all right, Har­ry?’

Har­ry didn’t ask how Pro­fes­sor Lupin knew his name.

‘Fine,’ he mut­tered, em­bar­rassed.

They didn’t talk much dur­ing the re­main­der of the jour­ney. At long last, the train stopped at Hogsmeade sta­tion, and there was a great scram­ble to get out; owls hoot­ed, cats miaowed, and Neville’s pet toad croaked loud­ly from un­der his hat. It was freez­ing on the tiny plat­form; rain was driv­ing down in icy sheets.

‘Firs’ years this way!’ called a fa­mil­iar voice. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione turned and saw the gi­gan­tic out­line of Ha­grid at the oth­er end of the plat­form, beck­on­ing the ter­ri­fied-​look­ing new stu­dents for­ward for their tra­di­tion­al jour­ney across the lake.

‘All righ’, you three?’ Ha­grid yelled over the heads of the crowd. They waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him be­cause the mass of peo­ple around them was shunt­ing them away along the plat­form. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione fol­lowed the rest of the school out on­to a rough mud track, where at least a hun­dred stage­coach­es await­ed the re­main­ing stu­dents, each pulled, Har­ry could on­ly as­sume, by an in­vis­ible horse, be­cause when they climbed in­side one and shut the door, the coach set off all by it­self, bump­ing and sway­ing in pro­ces­sion.

The coach smelled faint­ly of mould and straw. Har­ry felt bet­ter since the choco­late, but still weak. Ron and Hermione kept look­ing at him side­ways, as though fright­ened he might col­lapse again.

As the car­riage trun­dled to­wards a pair of mag­nif­icent wrought-​iron gates, flanked with stone columns topped with winged boars, Har­ry saw two more tow­er­ing, hood­ed De­men­tors, stand­ing guard on ei­ther side. A wave of cold sick­ness threat­ened to en­gulf him again; he leaned back in­to the lumpy seat and closed his eyes un­til they had passed through the gates. The car­riage picked up speed on the long, slop­ing drive up to the cas­tle; Hermione was lean­ing out of the tiny win­dow, watch­ing the many tur­rets and tow­ers draw near­er. At last, the car­riage swayed to a halt, and Hermione and Ron got out.

As Har­ry stepped down, a drawl­ing, de­light­ed voice sound­ed in his ear.

‘You faint­ed, Pot­ter? Is Long­bot­tom telling the truth? You ac­tu­al­ly faint­ed?’

Mal­foy el­bowed past Hermione to block Har­ry’s way up the stone steps to the cas­tle, his face glee­ful and his pale eyes glint­ing ma­li­cious­ly.

‘Shove off, Mal­foy’ said Ron, whose jaw was clenched.

‘Did you faint as well, Weasley?’ said Mal­foy loud­ly. ‘Did the scary old De­men­tor fright­en you, too, Weasley?’

‘Is there a prob­lem?’ said a mild voice. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had just got out of the next car­riage.

Mal­foy gave Pro­fes­sor Lupin an in­so­lent stare, which took in the patch­es on his robes and the di­lap­idat­ed suit­case. With a tiny hint of sar­casm in his voice, he said, ‘Oh, no – er – Pro­fes­sor,’ then he smirked at Crabbe and Goyle, and led them up the steps in­to the cas­tle.

Hermione prod­ded Ron in the back to make him hur­ry, and the three of them joined the crowd swarm­ing up the steps, through the gi­ant oak front doors, and in­to the cav­ernous En­trance Hall, which was lit with flam­ing torch­es and housed a mag­nif­icent mar­ble stair­case which led to the up­per floors.

The door in­to the Great Hall stood open at the right; Har­ry fol­lowed the crowd to­wards it, but had bare­ly glimpsed the en­chant­ed ceil­ing, which was black and cloudy tonight, when a voice called, ‘Pot­ter! Granger! I want to see you both!’

Har­ry and Hermione turned around, sur­prised. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Trans­fig­ura­tion teach­er and head of Gryffind­or house, was call­ing over the heads of the crowd. She was a stern-​look­ing witch who wore her hair in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed with square spec­ta­cles. Har­ry fought his way over to her with a feel­ing of fore­bod­ing; Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had a way of mak­ing him feel he must have done some­thing wrong.

‘There’s no need to look so wor­ried – I just want a word in my of­fice,’ she told them. ‘Move along there, Weasley.’

Ron stared as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ush­ered Har­ry and Hermione away from the chat­ter­ing crowd; they ac­com­pa­nied her across the En­trance Hall, up the mar­ble stair­case and along a cor­ri­dor.

Once they were in her of­fice, a small room with a large, wel­com­ing fire, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall mo­tioned Har­ry and Hermione to sit down. She set­tled her­self be­hind her desk and said abrupt­ly, ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin sent an owl ahead to say that you were tak­en ill on the train, Pot­ter.’

Be­fore Har­ry could re­ply, there was a soft knock on the door and Madam Pom­frey the ma­tron, came bustling in.

Har­ry felt him­self go­ing red in the face. It was bad enough that he’d passed out, or what­ev­er he had done, with­out ev­ery­one mak­ing all this fuss.

‘I’m fine,’ he said. ‘I don’t need any­thing –’

‘Oh, it’s you, is it?’ said Madam Pom­frey, ig­nor­ing this and bend­ing down to stare close­ly at him. ‘I sup­pose you’ve been do­ing some­thing dan­ger­ous again?’

‘It was a De­men­tor, Pop­py,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

They ex­changed a dark look and Madam Pom­frey clucked dis­ap­prov­ing­ly.

‘Set­ting De­men­tors around a school,’ she mut­tered, push­ing Har­ry’s hair back and feel­ing his fore­head. ‘He won’t be the first one who col­laps­es. Yes, he’s all clam­my. Ter­ri­ble things, they are, and the ef­fect they have on peo­ple who are al­ready del­icate –’

‘I’m not del­icate!’ said Har­ry cross­ly.

‘Of course you’re not,’ said Madam Pom­frey ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly, now tak­ing his pulse.

‘What does he need?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall crisply. ‘Bed rest? Should he per­haps spend tonight in the hos­pi­tal wing?’

‘I’m fine!’ said Har­ry, jump­ing up. The idea of what Dra­co Mal­foy would say if he had to go to the hos­pi­tal wing was tor­ture.

‘Well, he should have some choco­late, at the very least,’ said Madam Pom­frey, who was now try­ing to peer in­to Har­ry’s eyes.

‘I’ve al­ready had some,’ said Har­ry. ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave me some. He gave it to all of us.’

‘Did he, now?’ said Madam Pom­frey ap­prov­ing­ly. ‘So we’ve fi­nal­ly got a De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er who knows his reme­dies.’

‘Are you sure you feel all right, Pot­ter?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry.

‘Very well. Kind­ly wait out­side while I have a quick word with Miss Granger about her timetable, then we can go down to the feast to­geth­er.’

Har­ry went back in­to the cor­ri­dor with Madam Pom­frey who left for the hos­pi­tal wing, mut­ter­ing to her­self. He on­ly had to wait a few min­utes; then Hermione emerged look­ing very hap­py about some­thing, fol­lowed by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and the three of them made their way back down the mar­ble stair­case to the Great Hall.

It was a sea of point­ed black hats; each of the long house ta­bles was lined with stu­dents, their faces glim­mer­ing by the light of thou­sands of can­dles, which were float­ing over the ta­bles in midair. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, who was a tiny lit­tle wiz­ard with a shock of white hair, was car­ry­ing an an­cient hat and a three-​legged stool out of the hall.

‘Oh,’ said Hermione soft­ly, ‘we’ve missed the Sort­ing!’

New stu­dents at Hog­warts were sort­ed in­to hous­es by try­ing on the Sort­ing Hat, which shout­ed out the house they were best suit­ed to (Gryffind­or, Raven­claw, Huf­flepuff or Slytherin). Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall strode off to­wards her emp­ty seat at the staff ta­ble, and Har­ry and Hermione set off in the oth­er di­rec­tion, as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, to­wards the Gryffind­or ta­ble. Peo­ple looked around at them as they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of them point­ed at Har­ry. Had the sto­ry of him col­laps­ing in front of the De­men­tor trav­elled that fast?

He and Hermione sat down on ei­ther side of Ron, who had saved them seats.

‘What was all that about?’ he mut­tered to Har­ry.

Har­ry start­ed to ex­plain in a whis­per, but at that mo­ment the Head­mas­ter stood up to speak, and he broke off.

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, though very old, al­ways gave an im­pres­sion of great en­er­gy. He had sev­er­al feet of long sil­ver hair and beard, half-​moon spec­ta­cles and an ex­treme­ly crooked nose. He was of­ten de­scribed as the great­est wiz­ard of the age, but that wasn’t why Har­ry re­spect­ed him. You couldn’t help trust­ing Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, and as Har­ry watched him beam­ing around at the stu­dents, he felt re­al­ly calm for the first time since the De­men­tor had en­tered the train com­part­ment.

‘Wel­come!’ said Dum­ble­dore, the can­dle­light shim­mer­ing on his beard. ‘Wel­come to an­oth­er year at Hog­warts! I have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very se­ri­ous, I think it best to get it out of the way be­fore you be­come be­fud­dled by our ex­cel­lent feast …’

Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat and con­tin­ued. ‘As you will all be aware af­ter their search of the Hog­warts Ex­press, our school is present­ly play­ing host to some of the De­men­tors of Azk­aban, who are here on Min­istry of Mag­ic busi­ness.’

He paused, and Har­ry re­mem­bered what Mr Weasley had said about Dum­ble­dore not be­ing hap­py with the De­men­tors guard­ing the school.

‘They are sta­tioned at ev­ery en­trance to the grounds,’ Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, ‘and while they are with us, I must make it plain that no­body is to leave school with­out per­mis­sion. De­men­tors are not to be fooled by tricks or dis­guis­es – or even In­vis­ibil­ity Cloaks,’ he added bland­ly, and Har­ry and Ron glanced at each oth­er. ‘It is not in the na­ture of a De­men­tor to un­der­stand plead­ing or ex­cus­es. I there­fore warn each and ev­ery one of you to give them no rea­son to harm you. I look to the Pre­fects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no stu­dent runs foul of the De­men­tors.’

Per­cy, who was sit­ting a few seats along from Har­ry, puffed out his chest again and stared around im­pres­sive­ly. Dum­ble­dore paused again; he looked very se­ri­ous­ly around the hall, and no­body moved or made a sound.

‘On a hap­pi­er note,’ he con­tin­ued, ‘I am pleased to wel­come two new teach­ers to our ranks this year.

‘First­ly, Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who has kind­ly con­sent­ed to fill the post of De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er.’

There was some scat­tered, rather un­en­thu­si­as­tic, ap­plause. On­ly those who had been in the com­part­ment on the train with Pro­fes­sor Lupin clapped hard, Har­ry among them. Pro­fes­sor Lupin looked par­tic­ular­ly shab­by next to all the oth­er teach­ers in their best robes.

‘Look at Snape!’ Ron hissed in Har­ry’s ear.

Pro­fes­sor Snape, the Po­tions mas­ter, was star­ing along the staff ta­ble at Pro­fes­sor Lupin. It was com­mon knowl­edge that Snape want­ed the De­fence Against the Dark Arts job, but even Har­ry, who hat­ed Snape, was star­tled at the ex­pres­sion twist­ing his thin, sal­low face. It was be­yond anger: it was loathing. Har­ry knew that ex­pres­sion on­ly too well; it was the look Snape wore ev­ery time he set eyes on Har­ry.

‘As to our sec­ond new ap­point­ment,’ Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, as the luke­warm ap­plause for Pro­fes­sor Lupin died away, ‘well, I am sor­ry to tell you that Pro­fes­sor Ket­tle­burn, our Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er, re­tired at the end of last year in or­der to en­joy more time with his re­main­ing limbs. How­ev­er, I am de­light­ed to say that his place will be filled by none oth­er than Rubeus Ha­grid, who has agreed to take on this teach­ing job in ad­di­tion to his game­keep­ing du­ties.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stared at each oth­er, stunned. Then they joined in with the ap­plause, which was tu­mul­tuous at the Gryffind­or ta­ble in par­tic­ular. Har­ry leaned for­ward to see Ha­grid, who was ru­by red in the face and star­ing down at his enor­mous hands, his wide grin hid­den in the tan­gle of his black beard.

‘We should’ve known!’ Ron roared, pound­ing the ta­ble. ‘Who else would have set us a bit­ing book?’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione were the last to stop clap­ping, and as Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore start­ed speak­ing again, they saw that Ha­grid was wip­ing his eyes on the table­cloth.

‘Well, I think that’s ev­ery­thing of im­por­tance,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Let the feast be­gin!’

The gold­en plates and gob­lets be­fore them filled sud­den­ly with food and drink. Har­ry, sud­den­ly ravenous, helped him­self to ev­ery­thing he could reach and be­gan to eat.

It was a de­li­cious feast; the Hall echoed with talk, laugh­ter and the clat­ter of knives and forks. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, how­ev­er, were ea­ger for it to fin­ish so that they could talk to Ha­grid. They knew how much be­ing made a teach­er would mean to him. Ha­grid wasn’t a ful­ly qual­ified wiz­ard; he had been ex­pelled from Hog­warts in his third year, for a crime he had not com­mit­ted. It had been Har­ry, Ron and Hermione who had cleared Ha­grid’s name last year.

At long last, when the last morsels of pump­kin tart had melt­ed from the gold­en plat­ters, Dum­ble­dore gave the word that it was time for them all to go to bed, and they got their chance.

‘Con­grat­ula­tions, Ha­grid!’ Hermione squealed, as they reached the teach­ers’ ta­ble.

‘All down ter you three,’ said Ha­grid, wip­ing his shin­ing face on his nap­kin as he looked up at them. ‘Can’ be­lieve it … great man, Dum­ble­dore … came straight down to me hut af­ter Pro­fes­sor Ket­tle­burn said he’d had enough … it’s what I al­ways want­ed …’

Over­come with emo­tion, he buried his face in his nap­kin, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall shooed them away.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione joined the Gryffind­ors stream­ing up the mar­ble stair­case and, very tired now, along more cor­ri­dors, up more and more stairs, to the hid­den en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er. A large por­trait of a fat la­dy in a pink dress asked them, ‘Pass­word?’

‘Com­ing through, com­ing through!’ Per­cy called from be­hind the crowd. ‘The new pass­word’s For­tu­na Ma­jor!’

‘Oh no,’ said Neville Long­bot­tom sad­ly. He al­ways had trou­ble re­mem­ber­ing the pass­words.

Through the por­trait hole and across the com­mon room, the girls and boys di­vid­ed to­wards their sep­arate stair­cas­es. Har­ry climbed the spi­ral stairs with no thought in his head ex­cept how glad he was to be back. They reached their fa­mil­iar, cir­cu­lar dor­mi­to­ry with its five four-​poster beds and Har­ry, look­ing around, felt he was home at last.





