CHAPTER SIX


Talons and Tea Leaves



When Har­ry, Ron and Hermione en­tered the Great Hall for break­fast next day, the first thing they saw was Dra­co Mal­foy, who seemed to be en­ter­tain­ing a large group of Slytherins with a very fun­ny sto­ry. As they passed, Mal­foy did a ridicu­lous im­pres­sion of a swoon­ing fit and there was a roar of laugh­ter.

‘Ig­nore him,’ said Hermione, who was right be­hind Har­ry. ‘Just ig­nore him, it’s not worth it …’

‘Hey Pot­ter!’ shrieked Pan­sy Parkin­son, a Slytherin girl with a face like a pug. ‘Pot­ter! The De­men­tors are com­ing, Pot­ter! Woooooooo!’

Har­ry dropped in­to a seat at the Gryffind­or ta­ble, next to George Weasley.

‘New third-​year timeta­bles,’ said George, pass­ing them over. ‘What’s up with you, Har­ry?’

‘Mal­foy,’ said Ron, sit­ting down on George’s oth­er side and glar­ing over at the Slytherin ta­ble.

George looked up in time to see Mal­foy pre­tend­ing to faint with ter­ror again.

‘That lit­tle git,’ he said calm­ly ‘He wasn’t so cocky last night when the De­men­tors were down our end of the train. Came run­ning in­to our com­part­ment, didn’t he, Fred?’

‘Near­ly wet him­self,’ said Fred, with a con­temp­tu­ous glance at Mal­foy.

‘I wasn’t too hap­py my­self,’ said George. ‘They’re hor­ri­ble things, those De­men­tors …’

‘Sort of freeze your in­sides, don’t they?’ said Fred.

‘You didn’t pass out, though, did you?’ said Har­ry in a low voice.

‘For­get it, Har­ry’ said George brac­ing­ly. ‘Dad had to go out to Azk­aban one time, re­mem­ber, Fred? And he said it was the worst place he’d ev­er been. He came back all weak and shak­ing … They suck the hap­pi­ness out of a place, De­men­tors. Most of the pris­on­ers go mad in there.’

‘Any­way, we’ll see how hap­py Mal­foy looks af­ter our first Quid­ditch match,’ said Fred. ‘Gryffind­or ver­sus Slytherin, first game of the sea­son, re­mem­ber?’

The on­ly time Har­ry and Mal­foy had faced each oth­er in a Quid­ditch match, Mal­foy had def­inite­ly come off worse. Feel­ing slight­ly more cheer­ful, Har­ry helped him­self to sausages and fried toma­toes.

Hermione was ex­am­in­ing her new timetable.

‘Ooh, good, we’re start­ing some new sub­jects to­day’ she said hap­pi­ly.

‘Hermione,’ said Ron, frown­ing as he looked over her shoul­der, ‘they’ve messed up your timetable. Look – they’ve got you down for about ten sub­jects a day. There isn’t enough time.’

‘I’ll man­age. I’ve fixed it all with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.’

‘But look,’ said Ron, laugh­ing, ‘see this morn­ing? Nine o’clock, Div­ina­tion. And un­der­neath, nine o’clock, Mug­gle Stud­ies. And –’ Ron leaned clos­er to the timetable, dis­be­liev­ing, ‘look – un­der­neath that, Arith­man­cy, nine o’clock. I mean, I know you’re good, Hermione, but no one’s that good. How’re you sup­posed to be in three class­es at once?’

‘Don’t be sil­ly,’ said Hermione short­ly. ‘Of course I won’t be in three class­es at once.’

‘Well, then –’

‘Pass the mar­malade,’ said Hermione.

‘But –’

‘Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my timetable’s a bit full?’ Hermione snapped. ‘I told you, I’ve fixed it all with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.’

Just then, Ha­grid en­tered the Great Hall. He was wear­ing his long mole­skin over­coat and was ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly swing­ing a dead pole­cat from one enor­mous hand.

‘All righ’?’ he said ea­ger­ly, paus­ing on the way to the staff ta­ble. ‘Yer in my firs’ ev­er les­son! Right af­ter lunch! Bin up since five get­tin’ ev­ery­thin’ ready … hope it’s OK … me, a teach­er … hones’ly …’

He grinned broad­ly at them and head­ed off to the staff ta­ble, still swing­ing the pole­cat.

‘Won­der what he’s been get­ting ready?’ said Ron, a note of anx­iety in his voice. The Hall was start­ing to emp­ty as peo­ple head­ed off to­wards their first les­son. Ron checked his timetable.

‘We’d bet­ter go, look, Div­ina­tion’s at the top of North Tow­er. It’ll take us ten min­utes to get there …’

They fin­ished their break­fast hasti­ly, said good­bye to Fred and George and walked back through the hall. As they passed the Slytherin ta­ble, Mal­foy did yet an­oth­er im­pres­sion of a faint­ing fit. The shouts of laugh­ter fol­lowed Har­ry in­to the En­trance Hall.

The jour­ney through the cas­tle to North Tow­er was a long one. Two years at Hog­warts hadn’t taught them ev­ery­thing about the cas­tle, and they had nev­er been in­side North Tow­er be­fore.

‘There’s – got – to – be – a – short – cut,’ Ron pant­ed, as they climbed their sev­enth long stair­case and emerged on an un­fa­mil­iar land­ing, where there was noth­ing but a large paint­ing of a bare stretch of grass hang­ing on the stone wall.

‘I think it’s this way,’ said Hermione, peer­ing down the emp­ty pas­sage to the right.

‘Can’t be,’ said Ron. ‘That’s south. Look, you can see a bit of the lake out of the win­dow …’

Har­ry was watch­ing the paint­ing. A fat, dap­ple-​grey pony had just am­bled on­to the grass and was graz­ing non­cha­lant­ly. Har­ry was used to the sub­jects of Hog­warts paint­ings mov­ing around and leav­ing their frames to vis­it each oth­er, but he al­ways en­joyed watch­ing them. A mo­ment lat­er, a short, squat knight in a suit of ar­mour had clanked in­to the pic­ture af­ter his pony. By the look of the grass stains on his met­al knees, he had just fall­en off.

‘Aha!’ he yelled, see­ing Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘What vil­lains are these that tres­pass up­on my pri­vate lands! Come to scorn at my fall, per­chance? Draw, you knaves, you dogs!’

They watched in as­ton­ish­ment as the lit­tle knight tugged his sword out of its scab­bard and be­gan bran­dish­ing it vi­olent­ly, hop­ping up and down in rage. But the sword was too long for him; a par­tic­ular­ly wild swing made him over­bal­ance, and he land­ed face down in the grass.

‘Are you all right?’ said Har­ry, mov­ing clos­er to the pic­ture.

‘Get back, you scurvy brag­gart! Back, you rogue!’

The knight seized his sword again and used it to push him­self back up, but the blade sank deeply in­to the grass and, though he pulled with all his might, he couldn’t get it out again. Fi­nal­ly he had to flop back down on­to the grass and push up his vi­sor to mop his sweat­ing face.

‘Lis­ten,’ said Har­ry, tak­ing ad­van­tage of the knight’s ex­haus­tion, ‘we’re look­ing for the North Tow­er. You don’t know the way, do you?’

‘A quest!’ The knight’s rage seemed to van­ish in­stant­ly. He clanked to his feet and shout­ed, ‘Come fol­low me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or else shall per­ish brave­ly in the charge!’

He gave the sword an­oth­er fruit­less tug, tried and failed to mount the fat pony, and cried, ‘On foot then, good sirs and gen­tle la­dy! On! On!’

And he ran, clank­ing loud­ly, in­to the left-​hand side of the frame and out of sight.

They hur­ried af­ter him along the cor­ri­dor, fol­low­ing the sound of his ar­mour. Ev­ery now and then they spot­ted him run­ning through a pic­ture ahead.

‘Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!’ yelled the knight, and they saw him reap­pear in front of an alarmed group of wom­en in crino­lines, whose pic­ture hung on the wall of a nar­row, spi­ral stair­case.

Puff­ing loud­ly, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione climbed the tight­ly spi­ralling steps, get­ting dizzi­er and dizzi­er, un­til at last they heard the murmer of voic­es above them, and knew they had reached the class­room.

‘Farewell!’ cried the knight, pop­ping his head in­to a paint­ing of some sin­is­ter-​look­ing monks. ‘Farewell, my com­rades-​in-​arms! If ev­er you have need of no­ble heart and steely sinew, call up­on Sir Cado­gan!’

‘Yeah, we’ll call you,’ mut­tered Ron, as the knight dis­ap­peared, ‘if we ev­er need some­one men­tal.’

They climbed the last few steps and emerged on­to a tiny land­ing, where most of the class was al­ready as­sem­bled. There were no doors off this land­ing; Ron nudged Har­ry and point­ed at the ceil­ing where there was a cir­cu­lar trap door with a brass plaque on it.

‘Sybill Trelawney, Div­ina­tion teach­er’, Har­ry read. ‘How’re we sup­posed to get up there?’

As though in an­swer to his ques­tion, the trap door sud­den­ly opened, and a sil­very lad­der de­scend­ed right at Har­ry’s feet. Ev­ery­one went qui­et.

‘Af­ter you,’ said Ron, grin­ning, so Har­ry climbed the lad­der first.

He emerged in­to the strangest-​look­ing class­room he had ev­er seen. In fact, it didn’t look like a class­room at all; more like a cross be­tween some­one’s at­tic and an old-​fash­ioned teashop. At least twen­ty small, cir­cu­lar ta­bles were crammed in­side it, all sur­round­ed by chintz arm­chairs and fat lit­tle pouffes. Ev­ery­thing was lit with a dim, crim­son light; the cur­tains at the win­dows were all closed, and the many lamps were draped with dark red scarves. It was sti­fling­ly warm, and the fire which was burn­ing un­der the crowd­ed man­tel­piece was giv­ing off a heavy, sick­ly sort of per­fume as it heat­ed a large, cop­per ket­tle. The shelves run­ning around the cir­cu­lar walls were crammed with dusty-​look­ing feath­ers, stubs of can­dles, many packs of tat­tered play­ing cards, count­less sil­very crys­tal balls and a huge ar­ray of teacups.

Ron ap­peared at Har­ry’s shoul­der as the class as­sem­bled around them, all talk­ing in whis­pers.

‘Where is she?’ Ron said.

A voice came sud­den­ly out of the shad­ows, a soft, misty sort of voice.

‘Wel­come,’ it said. ‘How nice to see you in the phys­ical world at last.’

Har­ry’s im­me­di­ate im­pres­sion was of a large, glit­ter­ing in­sect. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney moved in­to the fire­light, and they saw that she was very thin; her large glass­es mag­ni­fied her eyes to sev­er­al times their nat­ural size, and she was draped in a gauzy span­gled shawl. In­nu­mer­able chains and beads hung around her spindly neck, and her arms and hands were en­crust­ed with ban­gles and rings.

‘Sit, my chil­dren, sit,’ she said, and they all climbed awk­ward­ly in­to arm­chairs or sank on­to pouffes. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat them­selves around the same round ta­ble.

‘Wel­come to Div­ina­tion,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who had seat­ed her­self in a winged arm­chair in front of the fire. ‘My name is Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. You may not have seen me be­fore. I find that de­scend­ing too of­ten in­to the hus­tle and bus­tle of the main school clouds my In­ner Eye.’

No­body said any­thing in an­swer to this ex­traor­di­nary pro­nounce­ment. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney del­icate­ly re­ar­ranged her shawl and con­tin­ued, ‘So you have cho­sen to study Div­ina­tion, the most dif­fi­cult of all mag­ical arts. I must warn you at the out­set that if you do not have the Sight, there is very lit­tle I will be able to teach you. Books can take you on­ly so far in this field …’

At these words, both Har­ry and Ron glanced, grin­ning, at Hermione, who looked star­tled at the news that books wouldn’t be much help in this sub­ject.

‘Many witch­es and wiz­ards, tal­ent­ed though they are in the area of loud bangs and smells and sud­den dis­ap­pear­ings, are yet un­able to pen­etrate the veiled mys­ter­ies of the fu­ture,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney went on, her enor­mous, gleam­ing eyes mov­ing from face to ner­vous face. ‘It is a Gift grant­ed to few. You, boy,’ she said sud­den­ly to Neville, who al­most top­pled off his pouffe, ‘is your grand­moth­er well?’

‘I think so,’ said Neville tremu­lous­ly.

‘I wouldn’t be so sure if I were you, dear,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, the fire­light glint­ing on her long emer­ald ear­rings. Neville gulped. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney con­tin­ued placid­ly, ‘We will be cov­er­ing the ba­sic meth­ods of Div­ina­tion this year. The first term will be de­vot­ed to read­ing the tea leaves. Next term we shall progress to palm­istry. By the way, my dear,’ she shot sud­den­ly at Par­vati Patil, ‘be­ware a red-​haired man.’

Par­vati gave a star­tled look at Ron, who was right be­hind her, and edged her chair away from him.

‘In the sum­mer term,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney went on, ‘we shall progress to the crys­tal ball – if we have fin­ished with fire-​omens, that is. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, class­es will be dis­rupt­ed in Febru­ary by a nasty bout of flu. I my­self will lose my voice. And around East­er, one of our num­ber will leave us for ev­er.’

A very tense si­lence fol­lowed this pro­nounce­ment, but Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed un­aware of it.

‘I won­der, dear,’ she said to Laven­der Brown, who was near­est and shrank back in her chair, ‘if you could pass me the largest sil­ver teapot?’

Laven­der, look­ing re­lieved, stood up, took an enor­mous teapot from the shelf and put it down on the ta­ble in front of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

‘Thank you, my dear. In­ci­den­tal­ly, that thing you are dread­ing – it will hap­pen on Fri­day the six­teenth of Oc­to­ber.’

Laven­der trem­bled.

‘Now, I want you all to di­vide in­to pairs. Col­lect a teacup from the shelf, come to me and I will fill it. Then sit down and drink; drink un­til on­ly the dregs re­main. Swill these around the cup three times with the left hand, then turn the cup up­side-​down on its saucer; wait for the last of the tea to drain away, then give your cup to your part­ner to read. You will in­ter­pret the pat­terns us­ing pages five and six of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. I shall move among you, help­ing and in­struct­ing. Oh, and dear –’ she caught Neville by the arm as he made to stand up, ‘af­ter you’ve bro­ken your first cup, would you be so kind as to se­lect one of the blue pat­terned ones? I’m rather at­tached to the pink.’

Sure enough, Neville had no soon­er reached the shelf of teacups when there was a tin­kle of break­ing chi­na. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney swept over to him hold­ing a dust­pan and brush and said, ‘One of the blue ones, then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind … thank you …’

When Har­ry and Ron had had their teacups filled, they went back to their ta­ble and tried to drink the scald­ing tea quick­ly. They swilled the dregs around as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had in­struct­ed, then drained the cups and swapped them.

‘Right,’ said Ron, as they both opened their books at pages five and six. ‘What can you see in mine?’

‘A load of sog­gy brown stuff,’ said Har­ry. The heav­ily per­fumed smoke in the room was mak­ing him feel sleepy and stupid.

‘Broad­en your minds, my dears, and al­low your eyes to see past the mun­dane!’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney cried through the gloom.

Har­ry tried to pull him­self to­geth­er.

‘Right, you’ve got a wonky sort of cross …’ he said, con­sult­ing Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. ‘That means you’re go­ing to have ‘tri­als and suf­fer­ing’ – sor­ry about that – but there’s a thing that could be the sun. Hang on … that means ‘great hap­pi­ness’ … so you’re go­ing to suf­fer but be very hap­py …’

‘You need your In­ner Eye test­ing, if you ask me,’ said Ron, and they both had to sti­fle their laughs as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gazed in their di­rec­tion.

‘My turn …’ Ron peered in­to Har­ry’s teacup, his fore­head wrin­kled with ef­fort. ‘There’s a blob a bit like a bowler hat,’ he said. ‘Maybe you’re go­ing to work for the Min­istry of Mag­ic …’

He turned the teacup the oth­er way up.

‘But this way it looks more like an acorn … what’s that?’ He scanned his copy of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. ‘‘A wind­fall, un­ex­pect­ed gold.’ Ex­cel­lent, you can lend me some. And there’s a thing here,’ he turned the cup again, ‘that looks like an an­imal. Yeah, if that was its head … it looks like a hip­po … no, a sheep …’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney whirled around as Har­ry let out a snort of laugh­ter.

‘Let me see that, my dear,’ she said re­prov­ing­ly to Ron, sweep­ing over and snatch­ing Har­ry’s cup from him. Ev­ery­one went qui­et to watch.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was star­ing in­to the teacup, ro­tat­ing it an­ti­clock­wise.

‘The fal­con … my dear, you have a dead­ly en­emy.’

‘But ev­ery­one knows that,’ said Hermione in a loud whis­per. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stared at her.

‘Well, they do,’ said Hermione. ‘Ev­ery­body knows about Har­ry and You-​Know-​Who.’

Har­ry and Ron stared at her with a mix­ture of amaze­ment and ad­mi­ra­tion. They had nev­er heard Hermione speak to a teach­er like that be­fore. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney chose not to re­ply. She low­ered her huge eyes to Har­ry’s cup again and con­tin­ued to turn it.

‘The club … an at­tack. Dear, dear, this is not a hap­py cup …’

‘I thought that was a bowler hat,’ said Ron sheep­ish­ly.

‘The skull … dan­ger in your path, my dear …’

Ev­ery­one was star­ing, trans­fixed, at Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who gave the cup a fi­nal turn, gasped, and then screamed.

There was an­oth­er tin­kle of break­ing chi­na; Neville had smashed his sec­ond cup. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sank in­to a va­cant arm­chair, her glit­ter­ing hand at her heart and her eyes closed.

‘My dear boy – my poor dear boy – no – it is kinder not to say – no – don’t ask me …’

‘What is it, Pro­fes­sor?’ said Dean Thomas at once. Ev­ery­one had got to their feet, and slow­ly, they crowd­ed around Har­ry and Ron’s ta­ble, press­ing close to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s chair to get a good look at Har­ry’s cup.

‘My dear,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s huge eyes opened dra­mat­ical­ly, ‘you have the Grim.’

‘The what?’ said Har­ry.

He could tell that he wasn’t the on­ly one who didn’t un­der­stand; Dean Thomas shrugged at him and Laven­der Brown looked puz­zled, but near­ly ev­ery­body else clapped their hands to their mouths in hor­ror.

‘The Grim, my dear, the Grim!’ cried Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who looked shocked that Har­ry hadn’t un­der­stood. ‘The gi­ant, spec­tral dog that haunts church­yards! My dear boy, it is an omen – the worst omen – of death!’

Har­ry’s stom­ach lurched. That dog on the cov­er of Death Omens in Flour­ish and Blotts – the dog in the shad­ows of Mag­no­lia Cres­cent … Laven­der Brown clapped her hands to her mouth, too. Ev­ery­one was look­ing at Har­ry; ev­ery­one ex­cept Hermione, who had got up and moved around to the back of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s chair.

‘I don’t think it looks like a Grim,’ she said flat­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sur­veyed Hermione with mount­ing dis­like.

‘You’ll for­give me for say­ing so, my dear, but I per­ceive very lit­tle au­ra around you. Very lit­tle re­cep­tiv­ity to the res­onances of the fu­ture.’

Sea­mus Finni­gan was tilt­ing his head from side to side.

‘It looks like a Grim if you do this,’ he said, with his eyes al­most shut, ‘but it looks more like a don­key from here,’ he said, lean­ing to the left.

‘When you’ve all fin­ished de­cid­ing whether I’m go­ing to die or not!’ said Har­ry, tak­ing even him­self by sur­prise. Now no­body seemed to want to look at him.

‘I think we will leave the les­son here for to­day’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in her mist­iest voice. ‘Yes … please pack away your things …’

Silent­ly the class took their teacups back to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, packed away their books and closed their bags. Even Ron was avoid­ing Har­ry’s eyes.

‘Un­til we meet again,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney faint­ly, ‘fair for­tune be yours. Oh, and dear –’ she point­ed at Neville, ‘you’ll be late next time, so mind you work ex­tra hard to catch up.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione de­scend­ed Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s lad­der and the wind­ing stair­case in si­lence, then set off for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s Trans­fig­ura­tion les­son. It took them so long to find her class­room that, ear­ly as they had left Div­ina­tion, they were on­ly just in time.

Har­ry chose a seat right at the back of the room, feel­ing as though he was sit­ting in a very bright spot­light; the rest of the class kept shoot­ing furtive glances at him, as though he was about to drop dead at any mo­ment. He hard­ly heard what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was telling them about An­ima­gi (wiz­ards who could trans­form at will in­to an­imals), and wasn’t even watch­ing when she trans­formed her­self in front of their eyes in­to a tab­by cat with spec­ta­cle mark­ings around her eyes.

‘Re­al­ly, what has got in­to you all to­day?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing back in­to her­self with a faint pop, and star­ing around at them all. ‘Not that it mat­ters, but that’s the first time my trans­for­ma­tion’s not got ap­plause from a class.’

Ev­ery­body’s heads turned to­wards Har­ry again, but no­body spoke. Then Hermione raised her hand.

‘Please, Pro­fes­sor, we’ve just had our first Div­ina­tion class, and we were read­ing the tea leaves, and –’

‘Ah, of course,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, sud­den­ly frown­ing. ‘There is no need to say any more, Miss Granger. Tell me, which of you will be dy­ing this year?’

Ev­ery­one stared at her.

‘Me,’ said Har­ry, fi­nal­ly.

‘I see,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, fix­ing Har­ry with her beady eyes. ‘Then you should know, Pot­ter, that Sybill Trelawney has pre­dict­ed the death of one stu­dent a year since she ar­rived at this school. None of them has died yet. See­ing death omens is her favourite way of greet­ing a new class. If it were not for the fact that I nev­er speak ill of my col­leagues –’ Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall broke off, and they saw that her nos­trils had gone white. She went on, more calm­ly, ‘Div­ina­tion is one of the most im­pre­cise branch­es of mag­ic. I shall not con­ceal from you that I have very lit­tle pa­tience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney …’

She stopped again, and then said, in a very mat­ter-​of-​fact tone, ‘You look in ex­cel­lent health to me, Pot­ter, so you will ex­cuse me if I don’t let you off home­work to­day. I as­sure you that if you die, you need not hand it in.’

Hermione laughed. Har­ry felt a bit bet­ter. It was hard­er to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and be­fud­dling per­fume of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s class­room. Not ev­ery­one was con­vinced, how­ev­er. Ron still looked wor­ried, and Laven­der whis­pered, ‘But what about Neville’s cup?’

When the Trans­fig­ura­tion class had fin­ished, they joined the crowd thun­der­ing to­wards the Great Hall for lunch.

‘Ron, cheer up,’ said Hermione, push­ing a dish of stew to­wards him. ‘You heard what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said.’ Ron spooned stew on­to his plate and picked up his fork but didn’t start.

‘Har­ry,’ he said, in a low, se­ri­ous voice, ‘you haven’t seen a great black dog any­where, have you?’

‘Yeah, I have,’ said Har­ry. ‘I saw one the night I left the Durs­leys.’

Ron let his fork fall with a clat­ter.

‘Prob­ably a stray’ said Hermione calm­ly.

Ron looked at Hermione as though she had gone mad.

‘Hermione, if Har­ry’s seen a Grim, that’s – that’s bad,’ he said. ‘My – my Un­cle Bil­ius saw one and – and he died twen­ty-​four hours lat­er!’

‘Co­in­ci­dence,’ said Hermione air­ily, pour­ing her­self some pump­kin juice.

‘You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about!’ said Ron, start­ing to get an­gry. ‘Grims scare the liv­ing day­lights out of most wiz­ards!’

‘There you are, then,’ said Hermione in a su­pe­ri­or tone. ‘They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim’s not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Har­ry’s still with us be­cause he’s not stupid enough to see one and think, right, well, I’d bet­ter pop my clogs then!’

Ron mouthed word­less­ly at Hermione, who opened her bag, took out her new Arith­man­cy book and propped it open against the juice jug.

‘I think Div­ina­tion seems very wool­ly’ she said, search­ing for her page. ‘A lot of guess­work, if you ask me.’

‘There was noth­ing wool­ly about the Grim in that cup!’ said Ron hot­ly.

‘You didn’t seem quite so con­fi­dent when you were telling Har­ry it was a sheep,’ said Hermione cool­ly.

‘Pro­fes­sor Trelawney said you didn’t have the right au­ra! You just don’t like be­ing rub­bish at some­thing for a change!’

He had touched a nerve. Hermione slammed her Arith­man­cy book down on the ta­ble so hard that bits of meat and car­rot flew ev­ery­where.

‘If be­ing good at Div­ina­tion means I have to pre­tend to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I’m not sure I’ll be study­ing it much longer! That les­son was ab­so­lute rub­bish com­pared to my Arith­man­cy class!’

She snatched up her bag and stalked away.

Ron frowned af­ter her.

‘What’s she talk­ing about?’ he said to Har­ry. ‘She hasn’t been to an Arith­man­cy class yet.’

*

Har­ry was pleased to get out of the cas­tle af­ter lunch. Yes­ter­day’s rain had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale grey and the grass was springy and damp un­der­foot as they set off for their first ev­er Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class.

Ron and Hermione weren’t speak­ing to each oth­er. Har­ry walked be­side them in si­lence as they went down the slop­ing lawns to Ha­grid’s hut on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est. It was on­ly when he spot­ted three on­ly-​too-​fa­mil­iar backs ahead of them that he re­alised they must be hav­ing these lessons with the Slytherins. Mal­foy was talk­ing an­imat­ed­ly to Crabbe and Goyle, who were chortling. Har­ry was quite sure he knew what they were talk­ing about.

Ha­grid was wait­ing for his class at the door of his hut. He stood in his mole­skin over­coat, with Fang the boarhound at his heels, look­ing im­pa­tient to start.

‘C’mon, now, get a move on!’ he called, as the class ap­proached. ‘Got a re­al treat for yeh to­day! Great les­son comin’ up! Ev­ery­one here? Right, fol­low me!’

For one nasty mo­ment, Har­ry thought that Ha­grid was go­ing to lead them in­to the For­est; Har­ry had had enough un­pleas­ant ex­pe­ri­ences in there to last him a life­time. How­ev­er, Ha­grid strolled off around the edge of the trees, and five min­utes lat­er, they found them­selves out­side a kind of pad­dock. There was noth­ing in there.

‘Ev­ery­one gath­er round the fence here!’ he called. ‘That’s it – make sure yeh can see. Now, firs’ thing yeh’ll want ter do is open yer books –’

‘How?’ said the cold, drawl­ing voice of Dra­co Mal­foy.

‘Eh?’ said Ha­grid.

‘How do we open our books?’ Mal­foy re­peat­ed. He took out his copy of The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters, which he had bound shut with a length of rope. Oth­er peo­ple took theirs out, too; some, like Har­ry, had belt­ed their book shut; oth­ers had crammed them in­side tight bags or clamped them to­geth­er with bull­clips.

‘Hasn’ – hasn’ any­one bin able ter open their books?’ said Ha­grid, look­ing crest­fall­en.

The class all shook their heads.

‘Yeh’ve got ter stroke ’em,’ said Ha­grid, as though this was the most ob­vi­ous thing in the world. ‘Look …’

He took Hermione’s copy and ripped off the Spel­lotape that bound it. The book tried to bite, but Ha­grid ran a gi­ant fore­fin­ger down its spine, and the book shiv­ered, and then fell open and lay qui­et in his hand.

‘Oh, how sil­ly we’ve all been!’ Mal­foy sneered. ‘We should have stroked them! Why didn’t we guess!’

‘I … I thought they were fun­ny,’ Ha­grid said un­cer­tain­ly to Hermione.

‘Oh, tremen­dous­ly fun­ny!’ said Mal­foy. ‘Re­al­ly wit­ty, giv­ing us books that try and rip our hands off!’

‘Shut up, Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry qui­et­ly. Ha­grid was look­ing down­cast and Har­ry want­ed Ha­grid’s first les­son to be a suc­cess.

‘Righ’ then,’ said Ha­grid, who seemed to have lost his thread, ‘so … so yeh’ve got yer books an’ … an’ … now yeh need the Mag­ical Crea­tures. Yeah. So I’ll go an’ get ’em. Hang on …’

He strode away from them in­to the For­est and out of sight.

‘God, this place is go­ing to the dogs,’ said Mal­foy loud­ly. ‘That oaf teach­ing class­es, my fa­ther’ll have a fit when I tell him –’

‘Shut up, Mal­foy’ Har­ry re­peat­ed.

‘Care­ful, Pot­ter, there’s a De­men­tor be­hind you –’

‘Oooooooh!’ squealed Laven­der Brown, point­ing to­wards the op­po­site side of the pad­dock.

Trot­ting to­wards them were a dozen of the most bizarre crea­tures Har­ry had ev­er seen. They had the bod­ies, hind legs and tails of hors­es, but the front legs, wings and heads of what seemed to be gi­ant ea­gles, with cru­el, steel-​coloured beaks and large, bril­liant­ly or­ange eyes. The talons on their front legs were half a foot long and dead­ly-​look­ing. Each of the beasts had a thick leather col­lar around its neck, which was at­tached to a long chain, and the ends of all of these were held in the vast hands of Ha­grid, who came jog­ging in­to the pad­dock be­hind the crea­tures.

‘Gee up, there!’ he roared, shak­ing the chains and urg­ing the crea­tures to­wards the fence where the class stood. Ev­ery­one drew back slight­ly as Ha­grid reached them and teth­ered the crea­tures to the fence.

‘Hip­pogriffs!’ Ha­grid roared hap­pi­ly, wav­ing a hand at them. ‘Beau’iful, aren’ they?’

Har­ry could sort of see what Ha­grid meant. Once you had got over the first shock of see­ing some­thing that was half horse, half bird, you start­ed to ap­pre­ci­ate the Hip­pogriffs’ gleam­ing coats, chang­ing smooth­ly from feath­er to hair, each of them a dif­fer­ent colour: stormy grey, bronze, a pink­ish roan, gleam­ing chest­nut and inky black.

‘So,’ said Ha­grid, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er and beam­ing around, ‘if yeh wan’ ter come a bit near­er …’

No one seemed to want to. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, how­ev­er, ap­proached the fence cau­tious­ly.

‘Now, firs’ thing yeh got­ta know abou’ Hip­pogriffs is they’re proud,’ said Ha­grid. ‘Eas­ily of­fend­ed, Hip­pogriffs are. Don’t nev­er in­sult one, ’cause it might be the last thing yeh do.’

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle weren’t lis­ten­ing; they were talk­ing in an un­der­tone and Har­ry had a nasty feel­ing they were plot­ting how best to dis­rupt the les­son.

‘Yeh al­ways wait fer the Hip­pogriff ter make the firs’ move,’ Ha­grid con­tin­ued. ‘It’s po­lite, see? Yeh walk to­wards him, and yeh bow, an’ yeh wait. If he bows back, yeh’re al­lowed ter touch him. If he doesn’ bow, then get away from him sharpish, ’cause those talons hurt.’

‘Right – who wants ter go first?’

Most of the class backed fur­ther away in an­swer. Even Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had mis­giv­ings. The Hip­pogriffs were toss­ing their fierce heads and flex­ing their pow­er­ful wings; they didn’t seem to like be­ing teth­ered like this.

‘No one?’ said Ha­grid, with a plead­ing look.

‘I’ll do it,’ said Har­ry.

There was an in­take of breath from be­hind him and both Laven­der and Par­vati whis­pered, ‘Oooh, no, Har­ry, re­mem­ber your tea leaves!’

Har­ry ig­nored them. He climbed over the pad­dock fence.

‘Good man, Har­ry!’ roared Ha­grid. ‘Right then – let’s see how yeh get on with Buck­beak.’

He un­tied one of the chains, pulled the grey Hip­pogriff away from his fel­lows and slipped off his leather col­lar. The class on the oth­er side of the pad­dock seemed to be hold­ing its breath. Mal­foy’s eyes were nar­rowed ma­li­cious­ly.

‘Easy now, Har­ry,’ said Ha­grid qui­et­ly. ‘Yeh’ve got eye con­tact, now try not ter blink – Hip­pogriffs don’ trust yeh if yen blink too much …’

Har­ry’s eyes im­me­di­ate­ly be­gan to wa­ter, but he didn’t shut them. Buck­beak had turned his great, sharp head, and was star­ing at Har­ry with one fierce or­ange eye.

‘Tha’s it,’ said Ha­grid. ‘Tha’s it, Har­ry … now, bow …’

Har­ry didn’t feel much like ex­pos­ing the back of his neck to Buck­beak, but he did as he was told. He gave a short bow and then looked up.

The Hip­pogriff was still star­ing haugh­ti­ly at him. It didn’t move.

‘Ah,’ said Ha­grid, sound­ing wor­ried. ‘Right – back away, now, Har­ry, easy does it –’

But then, to Har­ry’s enor­mous sur­prise, the Hip­pogriff sud­den­ly bent his scaly front knees, and sank in­to what was an un­mis­take­able bow.

‘Well done, Har­ry!’ said Ha­grid, ec­stat­ic. ‘Right – yeh can touch him! Pat his beak, go on!’

Feel­ing that a bet­ter re­ward would have been to back away, Har­ry moved slow­ly to­wards the Hip­pogriff and reached out to­wards him. He pat­ted the beak sev­er­al times and the Hip­pogriff closed his eyes lazi­ly, as though en­joy­ing it.

The class broke in­to ap­plause, all ex­cept for Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle, who were look­ing deeply dis­ap­point­ed.

‘Righ’ then, Har­ry,’ said Ha­grid, ‘I reck­on he migh’ let yeh ride him!’

This was more than Har­ry had bar­gained for. He was used to a broom­stick; but he wasn’t sure a Hip­pogriff would be quite the same.

‘Yeh climb up there, jus’ be­hind the wing joint,’ said Ha­grid, ‘an’ mind yeh don’ pull any of his feath­ers out, he won’ like that …’

Har­ry put his foot on the top of Buck­beak’s wing and hoist­ed him­self on­to his back. Buck­beak stood up. Har­ry wasn’t sure where to hold on; ev­ery­thing in front of him was cov­ered in feath­ers.

‘Go on, then!’ roared Ha­grid, slap­ping the Hip­pogriffs hindquar­ters.

With­out warn­ing, twelve-​foot wings flapped open on ei­ther side of Har­ry; he just had time to seize the Hip­pogriff around the neck be­fore he was soar­ing up­wards. It was noth­ing like a broom­stick, and Har­ry knew which one he pre­ferred; the Hip­pogriff’s wings were beat­ing un­com­fort­ably on ei­ther side of him, catch­ing him un­der his legs and mak­ing him feel he was about to be thrown off; the glossy feath­ers slipped un­der his fin­gers and he didn’t dare get a stronger grip; in­stead of the smooth ac­tion of his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, he now felt him­self rock­ing back­wards and for­wards as the hindquar­ters of the Hip­pogriff rose and fell with his wings.

Buck­beak flew him once around the pad­dock and then head­ed back to the ground; this was the bit Har­ry had been dread­ing; he leaned back as the smooth neck low­ered, feel­ing he was go­ing to slip off over the beak; then he felt a heavy thud as the four ill-​as­sort­ed feet hit the ground, and just man­aged to hold on and push him­self straight again.

‘Good work, Har­ry!’ roared Ha­grid, as ev­ery­one ex­cept Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle cheered. ‘OK, who else wants a go?’

Em­bold­ened by Har­ry’s suc­cess, the rest of the class climbed cau­tious­ly in­to the pad­dock. Ha­grid un­tied the Hip­pogriffs one by one, and soon peo­ple were bow­ing ner­vous­ly, all over the pad­dock. Neville ran re­peat­ed­ly back­wards from his, which didn’t seem to want to bend its knees. Ron and Hermione prac­tised on the chest­nut, while Har­ry watched.

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle had tak­en over Buck­beak. He had bowed to Mal­foy, who was now pat­ting his beak, look­ing dis­dain­ful.

‘This is very easy,’ Mal­foy drawled, loud enough for Har­ry to hear him. ‘I knew it must have been, if Pot­ter could do it … I bet you’re not dan­ger­ous at all, are you?’ he said to the Hip­pogriff. ‘Are you, you ug­ly great brute?’

It hap­pened in a flash of steely talons; Mal­foy let out a high-​pitched scream and next mo­ment, Ha­grid was wrestling Buck­beak back in­to his col­lar as he strained to get at Mal­foy, who lay curled in the grass, blood blos­som­ing over his robes.

‘I’m dy­ing!’ Mal­foy yelled, as the class pan­icked. ‘I’m dy­ing, look at me! It’s killed me!’

‘Yer not dyin’!’ said Ha­grid, who had gone very white. ‘Some­one help me – got­ta get him out­ta here –’

Hermione ran to open the gate while Ha­grid lift­ed Mal­foy eas­ily. As they passed, Har­ry saw that there was a long, deep gash in Mal­foy’s arm; blood splat­tered the grass and Ha­grid ran with him, up the slope to­wards the cas­tle.

Very shak­en, the Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class fol­lowed at a walk. The Slytherins were all shout­ing about Ha­grid.

‘They should sack him straight away!’ said Pan­sy Parkin­son, who was in tears.

‘It was Mal­foy’s fault!’ snapped Dean Thomas. Crabbe and Goyle flexed their mus­cles threat­en­ing­ly.

They all climbed the stone steps in­to the de­sert­ed En­trance Hall.

‘I’m go­ing to see if he’s OK!’ said Pan­sy, and they all watched her run up the mar­ble stair­case. The Slytherins, still mut­ter­ing about Ha­grid, head­ed away in the di­rec­tion of their dun­geon com­mon room; Har­ry, Ron and Hermione pro­ceed­ed up­stairs to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

‘D’you think he’ll be all right?’ said Hermione ner­vous­ly.

‘’Course he will, Madam Pom­frey can mend cuts in about a sec­ond,’ said Har­ry, who had had far worse in­juries mend­ed mag­ical­ly by the ma­tron.

‘That was a re­al­ly bad thing to hap­pen in Ha­grid’s first class, though, wasn’t it?’ said Ron, look­ing wor­ried. ‘Trust Mal­foy to mess things up for him …’

They were among the first to reach the Great Hall at din­ner-​time, hop­ing to see Ha­grid, but he wasn’t there.

‘They wouldn’t sack him, would they?’ said Hermione anx­ious­ly, not touch­ing her steak-​and-​kid­ney pud­ding.

‘They’d bet­ter not,’ said Ron, who wasn’t eat­ing ei­ther.

Har­ry was watch­ing the Slytherin ta­ble. A large group in­clud­ing Crabbe and Goyle were hud­dled to­geth­er, deep in con­ver­sa­tion. Har­ry was sure they were cook­ing up their own ver­sion of how Mal­foy had got in­jured.

‘Well, you can’t say it wasn’t an in­ter­est­ing first day back,’ said Ron gloomi­ly.

They went up to the crowd­ed Gryffind­or com­mon room af­ter din­ner and tried to do the home­work Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had set them, but all three of them kept break­ing off and glanc­ing out of the tow­er win­dow.

‘There’s a light on in Ha­grid’s win­dow,’ Har­ry said sud­den­ly.

Ron looked at his watch.

‘If we hur­ried, we could go down and see him, it’s still quite ear­ly …’

‘I don’t know,’ Hermione said slow­ly, and Har­ry saw her glance at him.

‘I’m al­lowed to walk across the grounds,’ he said point­ed­ly. ‘Sir­ius Black hasn’t got past the De­men­tors here, has he?’

So they put their things away and head­ed out of the por­trait hole, glad not to meet any­body on their way to the front doors, as they weren’t en­tire­ly sure they were sup­posed to be out.

The grass was still wet and looked al­most black in the twi­light. When they reached Ha­grid’s hut, they knocked, and a voice growled, ‘C’min.’

Ha­grid was sit­ting in his shirt-​sleeves at his scrubbed wood­en ta­ble; his boarhound, Fang, had his head in Ha­grid’s lap. One look told them that Ha­grid had been drink­ing a lot; there was a pewter tankard al­most as a big as a buck­et in front of him, and he seemed to be hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty in get­ting them in­to fo­cus.

‘’Spect it’s a record,’ he said thick­ly, when he recog­nised them. ‘Don’ reck­on they’ve ev­er had a teach­er who on’y last­ed a day be­fore.’

‘You haven’t been sacked, Ha­grid!’ gasped Hermione.

‘Not yet,’ said Ha­grid mis­er­ably, tak­ing a huge gulp of what­ev­er was in the tankard. ‘But ’son­ly a mat­ter o’ time, i’n’t it, af­ter Mal­foy …’

‘How is he?’ said Ron, as they all sat down. ‘It wasn’t se­ri­ous, was it?’

‘Madam Pom­frey fixed him best she could,’ said Ha­grid dul­ly, ‘but he’s sayin’ it’s still agony … cov­ered in ban­dages … moanin’ …’

‘He’s fak­ing it,’ said Har­ry at once. ‘Madam Pom­frey can mend any­thing. She re­grew half my bones last year. Trust Mal­foy to milk it for all it’s worth.’

‘School gov’nors have bin told, o’ course,’ said Ha­grid mis­er­ably. ‘They reck­on I start­ed too big. Shoul­da left Hip­pogriffs fer lat­er … done Flob­ber­worms or sum­mat … jus’ thought it’d make a good firs’ les­son … s’all my fault …’

‘It’s all Mal­foy’s fault, Ha­grid!’ said Hermione earnest­ly.

‘We’re wit­ness­es,’ said Har­ry. ‘You said Hip­pogriffs at­tack if you in­sult them. It’s Mal­foy’s prob­lem he wasn’t lis­ten­ing. We’ll tell Dum­ble­dore what re­al­ly hap­pened.’

‘Yeah, don’t wor­ry, Ha­grid, we’ll back you up,’ said Ron.

Tears leaked out of the crin­kled cor­ners of Ha­grid’s bee­tle-​black eyes. He grabbed both Har­ry and Ron and pulled them in­to a bone-​break­ing hug.

‘I think you’ve had enough to drink, Ha­grid,’ said Hermione firm­ly. She took the tankard from the ta­ble and went out­side to emp­ty it.

‘Ar, maybe she’s right,’ said Ha­grid, let­ting go of Har­ry and Ron, who both stag­gered away, rub­bing their ribs. Ha­grid heaved him­self out of his chair and fol­lowed Hermione un­steadi­ly out­side. They heard a loud splash.

‘What’s he done?’ said Har­ry ner­vous­ly, as Hermione came back in with the emp­ty tankard.

‘Stuck his head in the wa­ter bar­rel,’ said Hermione, putting the tankard away.

Ha­grid came back, his long hair and beard sop­ping wet, wip­ing the wa­ter out of his eyes.

‘Tha’s bet­ter,’ he said, shak­ing his head like a dog and drench­ing them all. ‘Lis­ten, it was good of yeh ter come an’ see me, I re­al­ly –’

Ha­grid stopped dead, star­ing at Har­ry as though he’d on­ly just re­alised he was there.

‘WHAT D’YEH THINK YOU’RE DOIN’, EH?’ he roared, so sud­den­ly that they jumped a foot in the air. ‘YEH’RE NOT TO GO WAN­DERIN’ AROUND AF­TER DARK, HAR­RY! AN’ YOU TWO! LET­TIN’ HIM!’

Ha­grid strode over to Har­ry, grabbed his arm and pulled him to the door.

‘C’mon!’ Ha­grid said an­gri­ly. ‘I’m takin’ yer all back up ter school, an’ don’ let me catch yeh walkin’ down ter see me af­ter dark again. I’m not worth that!’
