CHAPTER SEVEN


The Bog­gart in the Wardrobe



Mal­foy didn’t reap­pear in class­es un­til late on Thurs­day morn­ing, when the Slytherins and Gryffind­ors were halfway through dou­ble Po­tions. He swag­gered in­to the dun­geon, his right arm cov­ered in ban­dages and bound up in a sling, act­ing, in Har­ry’s opin­ion, as though he was the hero­ic sur­vivor of some dread­ful bat­tle.

‘How is it, Dra­co?’ sim­pered Pan­sy Parkin­son. ‘Does it hurt much?’

‘Yeah,’ said Mal­foy, putting on a brave sort of gri­mace. But Har­ry saw him wink at Crabbe and Goyle when Pan­sy had looked away.

‘Set­tle down, set­tle down,’ said Pro­fes­sor Snape idly.

Har­ry and Ron scowled at each oth­er; Snape wouldn’t have said ‘set­tle down’ if they’d walked in late, he’d have giv­en them de­ten­tion. But Mal­foy had al­ways been able to get away with any­thing in Snape’s class­es; Snape was Head of Slytherin house, and gen­er­al­ly favoured his own stu­dents be­fore all oth­ers.

They were mak­ing a new po­tion to­day, a Shrink­ing So­lu­tion. Mal­foy set up his caul­dron right next to Har­ry and Ron, so that they were prepar­ing their in­gre­di­ents on the same ta­ble.

‘Sir,’ Mal­foy called, ‘sir, I’ll need help cut­ting up these daisy roots, be­cause of my arm –’

‘Weasley, cut up Mal­foy’s roots for him,’ said Snape, with­out look­ing up.

Ron went brick red.

‘There’s noth­ing wrong with your arm,’ he hissed at Mal­foy.

Mal­foy smirked across the ta­ble.

‘Weasley, you heard Pro­fes­sor Snape, cut up these roots.’

Ron seized his knife, pulled Mal­foy’s roots to­wards him and be­gan to chop them rough­ly, so that they were all dif­fer­ent sizes.

‘Pro­fes­sor,’ drawled Mal­foy, ‘Weasley’s mu­ti­lat­ing my roots, sir.’

Snape ap­proached their ta­ble, stared down his hooked nose at the roots, then gave Ron an un­pleas­ant smile from be­neath his long, greasy black hair.

‘Change roots with Mal­foy, Weasley.’

‘But sir –!’

Ron had spent the last quar­ter of an hour care­ful­ly shred­ding his own roots in­to ex­act­ly equal pieces.

‘Now,’ said Snape in his most dan­ger­ous voice.

Ron shoved his own beau­ti­ful­ly cut roots across the ta­ble at Mal­foy, then took up the knife again.

‘And, sir, I’ll need this Shriv­elfig skinned,’ said Mal­foy, his voice full of ma­li­cious laugh­ter.

‘Pot­ter, you can skin Mal­foy’s Shriv­elfig,’ said Snape, giv­ing Har­ry the look of loathing he al­ways re­served just for him.

Har­ry took Mal­foy’s Shriv­elfig as Ron set about try­ing to re­pair the dam­age to the roots he now had to use. Har­ry skinned the Shriv­elfig as fast as he could and flung it back across the ta­ble at Mal­foy with­out speak­ing. Mal­foy was smirk­ing more broad­ly than ev­er.

‘Seen your pal Ha­grid late­ly?’ he asked them qui­et­ly.

‘None of your busi­ness,’ said Ron jerk­ily, with­out look­ing up.

‘I’m afraid he won’t be a teach­er much longer,’ said Mal­foy, in a tone of mock sor­row. ‘Fa­ther’s not very hap­py about my in­jury –’

‘Keep talk­ing, Mal­foy, and I’ll give you a re­al in­jury,’ snarled Ron.

‘– he’s com­plained to the school gov­er­nors. And to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Fa­ther’s got a lot of in­flu­ence, you know. And a last­ing in­jury like this –’ he gave a huge, fake sigh, ‘who knows if my arm’ll ev­er be the same again?’

‘So that’s why you’re putting it on,’ said Har­ry, ac­ci­den­tal­ly be­head­ing a dead cater­pil­lar be­cause his hand was shak­ing in anger. ‘To try and get Ha­grid sacked.’

‘Well,’ said Mal­foy, low­er­ing his voice to a whis­per, ‘part­ly, Pot­ter. But there are oth­er ben­efits, too. Weasley, slice my cater­pil­lars for me.’

A few caul­drons away, Neville was in trou­ble. Neville reg­ular­ly went to pieces in Po­tions lessons; it was his worst sub­ject, and his great fear of Pro­fes­sor Snape made things ten times worse. His po­tion, which was sup­posed to be a bright, acid green, had turned –

‘Or­ange, Long­bot­tom,’ said Snape, ladling some up and al­low­ing it to splash back in­to the caul­dron, so that ev­ery­one could see. ‘Or­ange. Tell me, boy, does any­thing pen­etrate that thick skull of yours? Didn’t you hear me say, quite clear­ly, that on­ly one rat spleen was need­ed? Didn’t I state plain­ly that a dash of leech juice would suf­fice? What do I have to do to make you un­der­stand, Long­bot­tom?’

Neville was pink and trem­bling. He looked as though he was on the verge of tears.

‘Please, sir,’ said Hermione, ‘please, I could help Neville put it right –’

‘I don’t re­mem­ber ask­ing you to show off, Miss Granger,’ said Snape cold­ly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. ‘Long­bot­tom, at the end of this les­son we will feed a few drops of this po­tion to your toad and see what hap­pens. Per­haps that will en­cour­age you to do it prop­er­ly.’

Snape moved away, leav­ing Neville breath­less with fear.

‘Help me!’ he moaned to Hermione.

‘Hey, Har­ry,’ said Sea­mus Finni­gan, lean­ing over to bor­row Har­ry’s brass scales, ‘have you heard? Dai­ly Prophet this morn­ing – they reck­on Sir­ius Black’s been sight­ed.’

‘Where?’ said Har­ry and Ron quick­ly. On the oth­er side of the ta­ble, Mal­foy looked up, lis­ten­ing close­ly.

‘Not too far from here,’ said Sea­mus, who looked ex­cit­ed. ‘It was a Mug­gle who saw him. ’Course, she didn’t re­al­ly un­der­stand. The Mug­gles think he’s just an or­di­nary crim­inal, don’t they? So she ’phoned the tele­phone hot­line. By the time the Min­istry of Mag­ic got there, he was gone.’

‘Not too far from here …’ Ron re­peat­ed, look­ing sig­nif­icant­ly at Har­ry. He turned around and saw Mal­foy watch­ing close­ly. ‘What, Mal­foy? Need some­thing else skin­ning?’

But Mal­foy’s eyes were shin­ing malev­olent­ly, and they were fixed on Har­ry. He leaned across the ta­ble.

‘Think­ing of try­ing to catch Black sin­gle-​hand­ed, Pot­ter?’

‘Yeah, that’s right,’ said Har­ry offhand­ed­ly.

Mal­foy’s thin mouth was curv­ing in a mean smile.

‘Of course, if it was me,’ he said qui­et­ly, ‘I’d have done some­thing be­fore now. I wouldn’t be stay­ing in school like a good boy, I’d be out there look­ing for him.’

‘What are you talk­ing about, Mal­foy?’ said Ron rough­ly.

‘Don’t you know, Pot­ter?’ breathed Mal­foy, his pale eyes nar­rowed.

‘Know what?’

Mal­foy let out a low, sneer­ing laugh.

‘Maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,’ he said. ‘Want to leave it to the De­men­tors, do you? But if it was me, I’d want re­venge. I’d hunt him down my­self.’

‘What are you talk­ing about?’ said Har­ry an­gri­ly, but at that mo­ment Snape called, ‘You should have fin­ished adding your in­gre­di­ents by now. This po­tion needs to stew be­fore it can be drunk; clear away while it sim­mers and then we’ll test Long­bot­tom’s …’

Crabbe and Goyle laughed open­ly, watch­ing Neville sweat as he stirred his po­tion fever­ish­ly. Hermione was mut­ter­ing in­struc­tions to him out of the cor­ner of her mouth, so that Snape wouldn’t see. Har­ry and Ron packed away their un­used in­gre­di­ents and went to wash their hands and la­dles in the stone basin in the cor­ner.

‘What did Mal­foy mean?’ Har­ry mut­tered to Ron, as he stuck his hands un­der the icy jet that poured from a gar­goyle’s mouth. ‘Why would I want re­venge on Black? He hasn’t done any­thing to me – yet.’

‘He’s mak­ing it up,’ said Ron, sav­age­ly, ‘he’s try­ing to make you do some­thing stupid …’

The end of the les­son in sight, Snape strode over to Neville, who was cow­er­ing by his caul­dron.

‘Ev­ery­one gath­er round,’ said Snape, his black eyes glit­ter­ing, ‘and watch what hap­pens to Long­bot­tom’s toad. If he has man­aged to pro­duce a Shrink­ing So­lu­tion, it will shrink to a tad­pole. If, as I don’t doubt, he has done it wrong, his toad is like­ly to be poi­soned.’

The Gryffind­ors watched fear­ful­ly. The Slytherins looked ex­cit­ed. Snape picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand, and dipped a small spoon in­to Neville’s po­tion, which was now green. He trick­led a few drops down Trevor’s throat.

There was a mo­ment of hushed si­lence, in which Trevor gulped; then there was a small pop, and Trevor the tad­pole was wrig­gling in Snape’s palm.

The Gryffind­ors burst in­to ap­plause. Snape, look­ing sour, pulled a small bot­tle from the pock­et of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor and he reap­peared sud­den­ly, ful­ly grown.

‘Five points from Gryffind­or,’ said Snape, which wiped the smiles from ev­ery face. ‘I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dis­missed.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione climbed the steps to the En­trance Hall. Har­ry was still think­ing about what Mal­foy had said, while Ron was seething about Snape.

‘Five points from Gryffind­or be­cause the po­tion was all right! Why didn’t you lie, Hermione? You should’ve said Neville did it all by him­self!’

Hermione didn’t an­swer. Ron looked around.

‘Where is she?’

Har­ry turned, too. They were at the top of the steps now, watch­ing the rest of the class pass them, head­ing for the Great Hall and lunch.

‘She was right be­hind us,’ said Ron, frown­ing.

Mal­foy passed them, walk­ing be­tween Crabbe and Goyle. He smirked at Har­ry and dis­ap­peared.

‘There she is,’ said Har­ry.

Hermione was pant­ing slight­ly, hur­ry­ing up the stairs; one hand was clutch­ing her bag, the oth­er seemed to be tuck­ing some­thing down the front of her robes.

‘How did you do that?’ said Ron.

‘What?’ said Hermione, join­ing them.

‘One minute you were right be­hind us, and next mo­ment, you were back at the bot­tom of the stairs again.’

‘What?’ Hermione looked slight­ly con­fused. ‘Oh – I had to go back for some­thing. Oh, no …’

A seam had split on Hermione’s bag. Har­ry wasn’t sur­prised; he could see that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

‘Why are you car­ry­ing all these around with you?’ Ron asked her.

‘You know how many sub­jects I’m tak­ing,’ said Hermione breath­less­ly. ‘Couldn’t hold these for me, could you?’

‘But –’ Ron was turn­ing over the books she had hand­ed him, look­ing at the cov­ers – ‘you haven’t got any of these sub­jects to­day. It’s on­ly De­fence Against the Dark Arts this af­ter­noon.’

‘Oh, yes,’ said Hermione vague­ly, but she packed all the books back in­to her bag just the same. ‘I hope there’s some­thing good for lunch, I’m starv­ing,’ she added, and she marched off to­wards the Great Hall.

‘D’you get the feel­ing Hermione’s not telling us some­thing?’ Ron asked Har­ry.

*

Pro­fes­sor Lupin wasn’t there when they ar­rived at his first De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son. They all sat down, took out their books, quills and parch­ment, and were talk­ing when he fi­nal­ly en­tered the room. Lupin smiled vague­ly and placed his tat­ty old brief­case on the teach­er’s desk. He was as shab­by as ev­er but looked health­ier than he had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals.

‘Good af­ter­noon,’ he said. ‘Would you please put all your books back in your bags. To­day’s will be a prac­ti­cal les­son. You will on­ly need your wands.’

A few cu­ri­ous looks were ex­changed as the class put away their books. They had nev­er had a prac­ti­cal De­fence Against the Dark Arts be­fore, un­less you count­ed the mem­orable class last year when their old teach­er had brought a cage­ful of pix­ies to class and set them loose.

‘Right then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, when ev­ery­one was ready, ‘if you’d fol­low me.’

Puz­zled but in­ter­est­ed, the class got to its feet and fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor Lupin out of the class­room. He led them along the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor and around a cor­ner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the poltergeist, who was float­ing up­side-​down in mid-​air and stuff­ing the near­est key­hole with chew­ing gum.

Peeves didn’t look up un­til Pro­fes­sor Lupin was two feet away, then he wig­gled his curly-​toed feet and broke in­to song.

‘Loony loopy Lupin,’ Peeves sang. ‘Loony loopy Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin –’

Rude and un­man­age­able as he al­most al­ways was, Peeves usu­al­ly showed some re­spect to­wards the teach­ers. Ev­ery­one looked quick­ly at Pro­fes­sor Lupin to see how he would take this; to their sur­prise, he was still smil­ing.

‘I’d take that gum out of the key­hole, if I were you, Peeves,’ he said pleas­ant­ly. ‘Mr Filch won’t be able to get in to his brooms.’

Filch was the Hog­warts care­tak­er, a bad-​tem­pered, failed wiz­ard who waged a con­stant war against the stu­dents and, in­deed, Peeves. How­ev­er, Peeves paid no at­ten­tion to Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s words, ex­cept to blow a loud wet rasp­ber­ry.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand.

‘This is a use­ful lit­tle spell,’ he told the class over his shoul­der. ‘Please watch close­ly.’

He raised the wand to shoul­der height, said ‘Wad­di­wasi!’ and point­ed it at Peeves.

With the force of a bul­let, the wad of chew­ing gum shot out of the key­hole and straight down Peeves’s left nos­tril; he whirled right way up and zoomed away, curs­ing.

‘Cool, sir!’ said Dean Thomas in amaze­ment.

‘Thank you, Dean,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, putting his wand away again. ‘Shall we pro­ceed?’

They set off again, the class look­ing at shab­by Pro­fes­sor Lupin with in­creased re­spect. He led them down a sec­ond cor­ri­dor and stopped, right out­side the staff room door.

‘In­side, please,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, open­ing it and stand­ing back.

The staff room, a long, pan­elled room full of old, mis­matched chairs, was emp­ty ex­cept for one teach­er. Pro­fes­sor Snape was sit­ting in a low arm­chair, and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were glit­ter­ing and there was a nasty sneer play­ing around his mouth. As Pro­fes­sor Lupin came in and made to close the door be­hind him, Snape said, ‘Leave it open, Lupin. I’d rather not wit­ness this.’ He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes bil­low­ing be­hind him. At the door­way he turned on his heel and said, ‘Pos­si­bly no one’s warned you, Lupin, but this class con­tains Neville Long­bot­tom. I would ad­vise you not to en­trust him with any­thing dif­fi­cult. Not un­less Miss Granger is hiss­ing in­struc­tions in his ear.’

Neville went scar­let. Har­ry glared at Snape; it was bad enough that he bul­lied Neville in his own class­es, let alone do­ing it in front of oth­er teach­ers.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin had raised his eye­brows.

‘I was hop­ing that Neville would as­sist me with the first stage of the op­er­ation,’ he said, ‘and I am sure he will per­form it ad­mirably.’

Neville’s face went, if pos­si­ble, even red­der. Snape’s lip curled, but he left, shut­ting the door with a snap.

‘Now, then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, beck­on­ing the class to­wards the end of the room, where there was noth­ing ex­cept an old wardrobe in which the teach­ers kept their spare robes. As Pro­fes­sor Lupin went to stand next to it, the wardrobe gave a sud­den wob­ble, bang­ing off the wall.

‘Noth­ing to wor­ry about,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin calm­ly, as a few peo­ple jumped back­wards in alarm. ‘There’s a Bog­gart in there.’

Most peo­ple seemed to feel that this was some­thing to wor­ry about. Neville gave Pro­fes­sor Lupin a look of pure ter­ror, and Sea­mus Finni­gan eyed the now rat­tling door­knob ap­pre­hen­sive­ly.

‘Bog­garts like dark, en­closed spaces,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Wardrobes, the gap be­neath beds, the cup­boards un­der sinks – I once met one that had lodged it­self in a grand­fa­ther clock. This one moved in yes­ter­day af­ter­noon, and I asked the Head­mas­ter if the staff would leave it to give my third-​years some prac­tice.

‘So, the first ques­tion we must ask our­selves is, what is a Bog­gart?’

Hermione put up her hand.

‘It’s a shape-​shifter,’ she said. ‘It can take the shape of what­ev­er it thinks will fright­en us most.’

‘Couldn’t have put it bet­ter my­self,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, and Hermione glowed. ‘So the Bog­gart sit­ting in the dark­ness with­in has not yet as­sumed a form. He does not yet know what will fright­en the per­son on the oth­er side of the door. No­body knows what a Bog­gart looks like when he is alone, but when I let him out, he will im­me­di­ate­ly be­come what­ev­er each of us most fears.

‘This means,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, choos­ing to ig­nore Neville’s small splut­ter of ter­ror, ‘that we have a huge ad­van­tage over the Bog­gart be­fore we be­gin. Have you spot­ted it, Har­ry?’

Try­ing to an­swer a ques­tion with Hermione next to him, bob­bing up and down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very off-​putting, but Har­ry had a go.

‘Er – be­cause there are so many of us, it won’t know what shape it should be?’

‘Pre­cise­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, and Hermione put her hand down look­ing a lit­tle dis­ap­point­ed. ‘It’s al­ways best to have com­pa­ny when you’re deal­ing with a Bog­gart. He be­comes con­fused. Which should he be­come, a head­less corpse or a flesh-​eat­ing slug? I once saw a Bog­gart make that very mis­take – tried to fright­en two peo­ple at once and turned him­self in­to half a slug. Not re­mote­ly fright­en­ing.

‘The charm that re­pels a Bog­gart is sim­ple, yet it re­quires force of mind. You see, the thing that re­al­ly fin­ish­es a Bog­gart is laugh­ter. What you need to do is force it to as­sume a shape that you find amus­ing.

‘We will prac­tise the charm with­out wands first. Af­ter me, please … rid­diku­lus!’

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ said the class to­geth­er.

‘Good,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Very good. But that was the easy part, I’m afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you come in, Neville.’

The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked for­ward as though he was head­ing for the gal­lows.

‘Right, Neville,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘First things first: what would you say is the thing that fright­ens you most in the world?’

Neville’s lips moved, but no noise came out.

‘Didn’t catch that, Neville, sor­ry,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin cheer­ful­ly.

Neville looked around rather wild­ly, as though beg­ging some­one to help him, then said, in bare­ly more than a whis­per, ‘Pro­fes­sor Snape.’

Near­ly ev­ery­one laughed. Even Neville grinned apolo­get­ical­ly. Pro­fes­sor Lupin, how­ev­er, looked thought­ful.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape … hm­mm … Neville, I be­lieve you live with your grand­moth­er?’

‘Er – yes,’ said Neville ner­vous­ly. ‘But – I don’t want the Bog­gart to turn in­to her, ei­ther.’

‘No, no, you mis­un­der­stand me,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, now smil­ing. ‘I won­der, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grand­moth­er usu­al­ly wears?’

Neville looked star­tled, but said, ‘Well … al­ways the same hat. A tall one with a stuffed vul­ture on top. And a long dress … green, nor­mal­ly … and some­times a fox-​fur scarf.’

‘And a hand­bag?’ prompt­ed Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

‘A big red one,’ said Neville.

‘Right then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Can you pic­ture those clothes very clear­ly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind’s eye?’

‘Yes,’ said Neville un­cer­tain­ly, plain­ly won­der­ing what was com­ing next.

‘When the Bog­gart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will as­sume the form of Pro­fes­sor Snape,’ said Lupin. ‘And you will raise your wand – thus – and cry ‘Rid­diku­lus’ – and con­cen­trate hard on your grand­moth­er’s clothes. If all goes well, Pro­fes­sor Bog­gart Snape will be forced in­to that vul­ture-​topped hat, that green dress, that big red hand­bag.’

There was a great shout of laugh­ter. The wardrobe wob­bled more vi­olent­ly.

‘If Neville is suc­cess­ful, the Bog­gart is like­ly to turn his at­ten­tion to each of us in turn,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘I would like all of you to take a mo­ment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imag­ine how you might force it to look com­ical …’

The room went qui­et. Har­ry thought … What scared him most in the world?

His first thought was Lord Volde­mort – a Volde­mort re­turned to full strength. But be­fore he had even start­ed to plan a pos­si­ble counter-​at­tack on a Bog­gart-​Volde­mort, a hor­ri­ble im­age came float­ing to the sur­face of his mind …

A rot­ting, glis­ten­ing hand, slith­er­ing back be­neath a black cloak … a long, rat­tling breath from an un­seen mouth … then a cold so pen­etrat­ing it felt like drown­ing …

Har­ry shiv­ered, then looked around, hop­ing no one had no­ticed. Many peo­ple had their eyes shut tight. Ron was mut­ter­ing to him­self, ‘Take its legs off.’ Har­ry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron’s great­est fear was spi­ders.

‘Ev­ery­one ready?’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

Har­ry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn’t ready. How could you make a De­men­tor less fright­en­ing? But he didn’t want to ask for more time; ev­ery­one else was nod­ding and rolling up their sleeves.

‘Neville, we’re go­ing to back away,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Let you have a clear field, all right? I’ll call the next per­son for­ward … ev­ery­one back, now, so Neville can get a clear shot –’

They all re­treat­ed, back­ing against the walls, leav­ing Neville alone be­side the wardrobe. He looked pale and fright­ened, but he had pushed up the sleeves of his robes and was hold­ing his wand ready.

‘On the count of three, Neville,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who was point­ing his own wand at the han­dle of the wardrobe. ‘One – two – three – now!’

A jet of sparks shot from the end of Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s wand and hit the door­knob. The wardrobe burst open. Hook-​nosed and men­ac­ing, Pro­fes­sor Snape stepped out, his eyes flash­ing at Neville.

Neville backed away, his wand up, mouthing word­less­ly. Snape was bear­ing down up­on him, reach­ing in­side his robes.

‘R-​r-​rid­diku­lus!’ squeaked Neville.

There was a noise like a whip-​crack. Snape stum­bled; he was wear­ing a long, lace-​trimmed dress and a tow­er­ing hat topped with a moth-​eat­en vul­ture, and swing­ing a huge crim­son hand­bag from his hand.

There was a roar of laugh­ter; the Bog­gart paused, con­fused, and Pro­fes­sor Lupin shout­ed, ‘Par­vati! For­ward!’

Par­vati walked for­ward, her face set. Snape round­ed on her. There was an­oth­er crack, and where he had stood was a blood­stained, ban­daged mum­my; its sight­less face was turned to Par­vati and it be­gan to walk to­wards her, very slow­ly, drag­ging its feet, its stiff arms ris­ing –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ cried Par­vati.

A ban­dage un­rav­elled at the mum­my’s feet; it be­came en­tan­gled, fell face for­wards and its head rolled off.

‘Sea­mus!’ roared Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

Sea­mus dart­ed past Par­vati.

Crack! Where the mum­my had been was a wom­an with floor-​length black hair and a skele­tal, green-​tinged face – a ban­shee. She opened her mouth wide, and an un­earth­ly sound filled the room, a long, wail­ing shriek which made the hair on Har­ry’s head stand on end –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ shout­ed Sea­mus.

The ban­shee made a rasp­ing noise and clutched her throat; her voice was gone.

Crack! The ban­shee turned in­to a rat, which chased its tail in a cir­cle, then – crack! – be­came a rat­tlesnake, which slith­ered and writhed be­fore – crack! – be­com­ing a sin­gle, bloody eye­ball.

‘It’s con­fused!’ shout­ed Lupin. ‘We’re get­ting there! Dean!’

Dean hur­ried for­ward.

Crack! The eye­ball be­came a sev­ered hand, which flipped over, and be­gan to creep along the floor like a crab.

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ yelled Dean.

There was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a mouse­trap.

‘Ex­cel­lent! Ron, you next!’

Ron leapt for­ward.

‘Crack!’

Quite a few peo­ple screamed. A gi­ant spi­der, six feet tall and cov­ered in hair, was ad­vanc­ing on Ron, click­ing its pin­cers men­ac­ing­ly. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Ron had frozen. Then –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ bel­lowed Ron, and the spi­der’s legs van­ished. It rolled over and over; Laven­der Brown squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt at Har­ry’s feet. He raised his wand, ready, but –

‘Here!’ shout­ed Pro­fes­sor Lupin sud­den­ly, hur­ry­ing for­ward.

Crack!

The leg­less spi­der had van­ished. For a sec­ond, ev­ery­one looked wild­ly around to see where it was. Then they saw a sil­very-​white orb hang­ing in the air in front of Lupin, who said ‘Rid­diku­lus!’ al­most lazi­ly.

Crack!

‘For­ward, Neville, and fin­ish him off!’ said Lupin, as the Bog­gart land­ed on the floor as a cock­roach. Crack! Snape was back. This time Neville charged for­ward look­ing de­ter­mined.

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ he shout­ed, and they had a split sec­ond’s view of Snape in his lacy dress be­fore Neville let out a great ‘Ha!’ of laugh­ter, and the Bog­gart ex­plod­ed, burst in­to a thou­sand tiny wisps of smoke, and was gone.

‘Ex­cel­lent!’ cried Pro­fes­sor Lupin, as the class broke in­to ap­plause. ‘Ex­cel­lent, Neville. Well done, ev­ery­one. Let me see … five points to Gryffind­or for ev­ery per­son to tack­le the Bog­gart – ten for Neville be­cause he did it twice – and five each to Hermione and Har­ry.’

‘But I didn’t do any­thing,’ said Har­ry.

‘You and Hermione an­swered my ques­tions cor­rect­ly at the start of the class, Har­ry,’ Lupin said light­ly. ‘Very well, ev­ery­one, an ex­cel­lent les­son. Home­work, kind­ly read the chap­ter on Bog­garts and sum­marise it for me … to be hand­ed in on Mon­day. That will be all.’

Talk­ing ex­cit­ed­ly, the class left the staff room. Har­ry, how­ev­er, wasn’t feel­ing cheer­ful. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had de­lib­er­ate­ly stopped him tack­ling the Bog­gart. Why? Was it be­cause he’d seen Har­ry col­lapse on the train, and thought he wasn’t up to much? Had he thought Har­ry would pass out again?

But no one else seemed to have no­ticed any­thing.

‘Did you see me take that ban­shee?’ shout­ed Sea­mus.

‘And the hand!’ said Dean, wav­ing his own around.

‘And Snape in that hat!’

‘And my mum­my!’

‘I won­der why Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s fright­ened of crys­tal balls?’ said Laven­der thought­ful­ly.

‘That was the best De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son we’ve ev­er had, wasn’t it?’ said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, as they made their way back to the class­room to get their bags.

‘He seems a very good teach­er,’ said Hermione ap­prov­ing­ly. ‘But I wish I could have had a turn with the Bog­gart –’

‘What would it have been for you?’ said Ron, snig­ger­ing. ‘A piece of home­work that on­ly got nine out of ten?’





