CHAPTER NINE


Grim De­feat



Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore sent all the Gryffind­ors back to the Great Hall, where they were joined ten min­utes lat­er by the stu­dents from Huf­flepuff, Raven­claw and Slytherin, who all looked ex­treme­ly con­fused.

‘The teach­ers and I need to con­duct a thor­ough search of the cas­tle,’ Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore told them as Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Flitwick closed all doors in­to the Hall. ‘I’m afraid that, for your own safe­ty, you will have to spend the night here. I want the Pre­fects to stand guard over the en­trances to the Hall and I am leav­ing the Head Boy and Girl in charge. Any dis­tur­bance should be re­port­ed to me im­me­di­ate­ly,’ he added to Per­cy, who was look­ing im­mense­ly proud and im­por­tant. ‘Send word with one of the ghosts.’

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore paused, about to the leave the Hall, and said, ‘Oh, yes, you’ll be need­ing …’

One ca­su­al wave of his wand and the long ta­bles flew to the edges of the Hall and stood them­selves against the walls; an­oth­er wave, and the floor was cov­ered with hun­dreds of squashy pur­ple sleep­ing bags.

‘Sleep well,’ said Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, clos­ing the door be­hind him.

The Hall im­me­di­ate­ly be­gan to buzz ex­cit­ed­ly; the Gryffind­ors were telling the rest of the school what had just hap­pened.

‘Ev­ery­one in­to their sleep­ing bags!’ shout­ed Per­cy. ‘Come on now, no more talk­ing! Lights out in ten min­utes!’

‘C’mon,’ Ron said to Har­ry and Hermione; they seized three sleep­ing bags and dragged them in­to a cor­ner.

‘Do you think Black’s still in the cas­tle?’ Hermione whis­pered anx­ious­ly.

‘Dum­ble­dore ob­vi­ous­ly thinks he might be,’ said Ron.

‘It’s very lucky he picked tonight, you know,’ said Hermione, as they climbed ful­ly dressed in­to their sleep­ing bags and propped them­selves on their el­bows to talk. ‘The one night we weren’t in the tow­er …’

‘I reck­on he’s lost track of time, be­ing on the run,’ said Ron. ‘Didn’t re­alise it was Hal­lowe’en. Oth­er­wise he’d have come burst­ing in here.’

Hermione shud­dered.

All around them, peo­ple were ask­ing each oth­er the same ques­tion: ‘How did he get in?’

‘Maybe he knows how to Ap­pa­rate,’ said a Raven­claw a few feet away. ‘Just ap­pear out of thin air, you know.’

‘Dis­guised him­self, prob­ably’ said a Huf­flepuff fifth-​year.

‘He could’ve flown in,’ sug­gest­ed Dean Thomas.

‘Hon­est­ly am I the on­ly per­son who’s ev­er both­ered to read Hog­warts, A His­to­ry?’ said Hermione cross­ly to Har­ry and Ron.

‘Prob­ably,’ said Ron. ‘Why?’

‘Be­cause the cas­tle’s pro­tect­ed by more than walls, you know,’ said Hermione. ‘There are all sorts of en­chant­ments on it, to stop peo­ple en­ter­ing by stealth. You can’t just Ap­pa­rate in here. And I’d like to see the dis­guise that could fool those De­men­tors. They’re guard­ing ev­ery sin­gle en­trance to the grounds. They’d have seen him fly in, too. And Filch knows all the se­cret pas­sages, they’ll have them cov­ered …’

‘The lights are go­ing out now!’ Per­cy shout­ed. ‘I want ev­ery­one in their sleep­ing bags and no more talk­ing!’

The can­dles all went out at once. The on­ly light now came from the sil­very ghosts, who were drift­ing about talk­ing se­ri­ous­ly to the Pre­fects, and the en­chant­ed ceil­ing, which, like the sky out­side, was scat­tered with stars. What with that, and the whis­per­ing that still filled the Hall, Har­ry felt as though he was sleep­ing out of doors in a light wind.

Once ev­ery hour, a teach­er would reap­pear in the Hall to check that ev­ery­thing was qui­et. Around three in the morn­ing, when many stu­dents had fi­nal­ly fall­en asleep, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore came in. Har­ry watched him look­ing around for Per­cy, who had been prowl­ing be­tween the sleep­ing bags, telling peo­ple off for talk­ing. Per­cy was on­ly a short way away from Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, who quick­ly pre­tend­ed to be asleep as Dum­ble­dore’s foot­steps drew near­er.

‘Any sign of him, Pro­fes­sor?’ asked Per­cy in a whis­per.

‘No. All well here?’

‘Ev­ery­thing un­der con­trol, sir.’

‘Good. There’s no point mov­ing them all now. I’ve found a tem­po­rary guardian for the Gryffind­or por­trait hole. You’ll be able to move them back in to­mor­row.’

‘And the Fat La­dy, sir?’

‘Hid­ing in a map of Ar­gyll­shire on the sec­ond floor. Ap­par­ent­ly she re­fused to let Black in with­out the pass­word, so he at­tacked. She’s still very dis­tressed, but once she’s calmed down, I’ll have Mr Filch re­store her.’

Har­ry heard the door of the Hall creak open again, and more foot­steps.

‘Head­mas­ter?’ It was Snape. Har­ry kept quite still, lis­ten­ing hard. ‘The whole of the third floor has been searched. He’s not there. And Filch has done the dun­geons; noth­ing there, ei­ther.’

‘What about the As­tron­omy tow­er? Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s room? The Owlery?’

‘All searched …’

‘Very well, Severus. I didn’t re­al­ly ex­pect Black to linger.’

‘Have you any the­ory as to how he got in, Pro­fes­sor?’ asked Snape.

Har­ry raised his head very slight­ly off his arms to free his oth­er ear.

‘Many Severus, each of them as un­like­ly as the next.’

Har­ry opened his eyes a frac­tion and squint­ed up to where they stood; Dum­ble­dore’s back was to him, but he could see Per­cy’s face, rapt with at­ten­tion, and Snape’s pro­file, which looked an­gry.

‘You re­mem­ber the con­ver­sa­tion we had, Head­mas­ter, just be­fore – ah – the start of term?’ said Snape, who was bare­ly open­ing his lips, as though try­ing to block Per­cy out of the con­ver­sa­tion.

‘I do, Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and there was some­thing like warn­ing in his voice.

‘It seems – al­most im­pos­si­ble – that Black could have en­tered the school with­out in­side help. I did ex­press my con­cerns when you ap­point­ed –’

‘I do not be­lieve a sin­gle per­son in­side this cas­tle would have helped Black en­ter it,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and his tone made it so clear that the sub­ject was closed that Snape didn’t re­ply. ‘I must go down to the De­men­tors,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘I said I would in­form them when our search was com­plete.’

‘Didn’t they want to help, sir?’ said Per­cy.

‘Oh yes,’ said Dum­ble­dore cold­ly. ‘But I’m afraid no De­men­tor will cross the thresh­old of this cas­tle while I am Head­mas­ter.’

Per­cy looked slight­ly abashed. Dum­ble­dore left the hall, walk­ing quick­ly and qui­et­ly. Snape stood for a mo­ment, watch­ing the Head­mas­ter with an ex­pres­sion of deep re­sent­ment on his face, then he, too, left.

Har­ry glanced side­ways at Ron and Hermione. Both of them had their eyes open, too, re­flect­ing the star­ry ceil­ing.

‘What was all that about?’ Ron mouthed.

*

The school talked of noth­ing but Sir­ius Black for the next few days. The the­ories about how he had en­tered the cas­tle be­came wilder and wilder; Han­nah Ab­bott, from Huf­flepuff, spent much of their next Her­bol­ogy class telling any­one who’d lis­ten that Black could turn in­to a flow­er­ing shrub.

The Fat La­dy’s ripped can­vas had been tak­en off the wall and re­placed with the por­trait of Sir Cado­gan and his fat grey pony. No­body was very hap­py about this. Sir Cado­gan spent half his time chal­leng­ing peo­ple to du­els, and the rest think­ing up ridicu­lous­ly com­pli­cat­ed pass­words, which he changed at least twice a day.

‘He’s bark­ing mad,’ said Sea­mus Finni­gan an­gri­ly to Per­cy. ‘Can’t we get any­one else?’

‘None of the oth­er pic­tures want­ed the job,’ said Per­cy. ‘Fright­ened of what hap­pened to the Fat La­dy. Sir Cado­gan was the on­ly one brave enough to vol­un­teer.’

Sir Cado­gan, how­ev­er, was the least of Har­ry’s wor­ries. He was now be­ing close­ly watched. Teach­ers found ex­cus­es to walk along cor­ri­dors with him and Per­cy Weasley (act­ing, Har­ry sus­pect­ed, on his moth­er’s or­ders) was tail­ing him ev­ery­where like an ex­treme­ly pompous guard dog. To cap it all, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sum­moned Har­ry in­to her of­fice, with such a som­bre ex­pres­sion on her face Har­ry thought some­one must have died.

‘There’s no point hid­ing it from you any longer, Pot­ter,’ she said, in a very se­ri­ous voice. ‘I know this will come as a shock to you, but Sir­ius Black –’

‘I know he’s af­ter me,’ said Har­ry weari­ly. ‘I heard Ron’s dad telling his mum. Mr Weasley works for the Min­istry of Mag­ic.’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall seemed very tak­en aback. She stared at Har­ry for a mo­ment or two, then said, ‘I see! Well, in that case, Pot­ter, you’ll un­der­stand why I don’t think it’s a good idea for you to be prac­tis­ing Quid­ditch in the evenings. Out on the pitch with on­ly your team mem­bers, it’s very ex­posed, Pot­ter –’

‘We’ve got our first match on Sat­ur­day!’ said Har­ry, out­raged. ‘I’ve got to train, Pro­fes­sor!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­sid­ered him in­tent­ly. Har­ry knew she was deeply in­ter­est­ed in the Gryffind­or team’s prospects; it had been she, af­ter all, who’d sug­gest­ed him as Seek­er in the first place. He wait­ed, hold­ing his breath.

‘Hmm …’ Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stood up and stared out of the win­dow at the Quid­ditch pitch, just vis­ible through the rain. ‘Well … good­ness knows, I’d like to see us win the cup at last … but all the same, Pot­ter … I’d be hap­pi­er if a teach­er were present. I’ll ask Madam Hooch to over­see your train­ing ses­sions.’

*

The weath­er wors­ened steadi­ly as the first Quid­ditch match drew near­er. Un­daunt­ed, the Gryffind­or team were train­ing hard­er than ev­er un­der the eye of Madam Hooch. Then, at their fi­nal train­ing ses­sion be­fore Sat­ur­day’s match, Oliv­er Wood gave his team some un­wel­come news.

‘We’re not play­ing Slytherin!’ he told them, look­ing very an­gry. ‘Flint’s just been to see me. We’re play­ing Huf­flepuff in­stead.’

‘Why?’ cho­rused the rest of the team.

‘Flint’s ex­cuse is that their Seek­er’s arm’s still in­jured,’ said Wood, grind­ing his teeth fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘But it’s ob­vi­ous why they’re do­ing it. Don’t want to play in this weath­er. Think it’ll dam­age their chances …’

There had been strong winds and heavy rain all day, and as Wood spoke, they heard a dis­tant rum­ble of thun­der.

‘There’s noth­ing wrong with Mal­foy’s arm!’ said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘He’s fak­ing it!’

‘I know that, but we can’t prove it,’ said Wood bit­ter­ly. ‘And we’ve been prac­tis­ing all those moves as­sum­ing we’re play­ing Slytherin, and in­stead it’s Huf­flepuff, and their style’s quite dif­fer­ent. They’ve got a new cap­tain and Seek­er, Cedric Dig­gory –’

An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie sud­den­ly gig­gled. ‘What?’ said Wood, frown­ing at this light-​heart­ed be­haviour.

‘He’s that tall, good-​look­ing one, isn’t he?’ said An­geli­na.

‘Strong and silent,’ said Katie, and they start­ed to gig­gle again.

‘He’s on­ly silent be­cause he’s too thick to string two words to­geth­er,’ said Fred im­pa­tient­ly. ‘I don’t know why you’re wor­ried, Oliv­er, Huf­flepuff are a pushover. Last time we played them, Har­ry caught the Snitch in about five min­utes, re­mem­ber?’

‘We were play­ing in com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent con­di­tions!’ Wood shout­ed, his eyes bulging slight­ly. ‘Dig­gory’s put a very strong side to­geth­er! He’s an ex­cel­lent Seek­er! I was afraid you’d take it like this! We mustn’t re­lax! We must keep our fo­cus! Slytherin are try­ing to wrong-​foot us! We must win!’

‘Oliv­er, calm down!’ said Fred, look­ing slight­ly alarmed. ‘We’re tak­ing Huf­flepuff very se­ri­ous­ly. Se­ri­ous­ly.’

*

The day be­fore the match, the winds reached howl­ing point and the rain fell hard­er than ev­er. It was so dark in­side the cor­ri­dors and class­rooms that ex­tra torch­es and lanterns were lit. The Slytherin team were look­ing very smug in­deed, and none more so than Mal­foy.

‘Ah, if on­ly my arm was feel­ing a bit bet­ter!’ he sighed, as the gale out­side pound­ed the win­dows.

Har­ry had no room in his head to wor­ry about any­thing ex­cept the match next day. Oliv­er Wood kept hur­ry­ing up to him be­tween class­es and giv­ing him tips. The third time this hap­pened, Wood talked for so long that Har­ry sud­den­ly re­alised he was ten min­utes late for De­fence Against the Dark Arts, and set off at a run with Wood shout­ing af­ter him, ‘Dig­gory’s got a very fast swerve, Har­ry, so you might want to try loop­ing him –’

Har­ry skid­ded to a halt out­side the De­fence Against the Dark Arts class­room, pulled the door open and dashed in­side.

‘Sor­ry I’m late, Pro­fes­sor Lupin, I –’

But it wasn’t Pro­fes­sor Lupin who looked up at him from the teach­er’s desk; it was Snape.

‘This les­son be­gan ten min­utes ago, Pot­ter, so I think we’ll make it ten points from Gryffind­or. Sit down.’

But Har­ry didn’t move.

‘Where’s Pro­fes­sor Lupin?’ he said.

‘He says he is feel­ing too ill to teach to­day,’ said Snape with a twist­ed smile. ‘I be­lieve I told you to sit down?’

But Har­ry stayed where he was.

‘What’s wrong with him?’

Snape’s black eyes glit­tered.

‘Noth­ing life-​threat­en­ing,’ he said, look­ing as though he wished it was. ‘Five more points from Gryffind­or, and if I have to ask you to sit down again, it will be fifty.’

Har­ry walked slow­ly to his seat and sat down. Snape looked around at the class.

‘As I was say­ing be­fore Pot­ter in­ter­rupt­ed, Pro­fes­sor Lupin has not left any record of the top­ics you have cov­ered so far –’

‘Please, sir, we’ve done Bog­garts, Red Caps, Kap­pas and Grindy­lows,’ said Hermione quick­ly, ‘and we’re just about to start –’

‘Be qui­et,’ said Snape cold­ly. ‘I did not ask for in­for­ma­tion. I was mere­ly com­ment­ing on Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s lack of or­gan­isa­tion.’

‘He’s the best De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er we’ve ev­er had,’ said Dean Thomas bold­ly, and there was a mur­mur of agree­ment from the rest of the class. Snape looked more men­ac­ing than ev­er.

‘You are eas­ily sat­is­fied. Lupin is hard­ly over-​tax­ing you – I would ex­pect first-​years to be able to deal with Red Caps and Grindy­lows. To­day we shall dis­cuss –’

Har­ry watched him flick through the text­book, to the very back chap­ter, which he must know they hadn’t cov­ered.

‘– were­wolves,’ said Snape.

‘But, sir,’ said Hermione, seem­ing­ly un­able to re­strain her­self, ‘we’re not sup­posed to do were­wolves yet, we’re due to start Hinky­punks –’

‘Miss Granger,’ said Snape, in a voice of dead­ly calm, ‘I was un­der the im­pres­sion that I was tak­ing this les­son, not you. And I am telling you all to turn to page three hun­dred and nine­ty-​four.’ He glanced around again. ‘All of you! Now!’

With many bit­ter side­long looks and some sullen mut­ter­ing, the class opened their books.

‘Which of you can tell me how we dis­tin­guish be­tween the were­wolf and the true wolf?’ said Snape.

Ev­ery­one sat in mo­tion­less si­lence; ev­ery­one ex­cept Hermione, whose hand, as it so of­ten did, had shot straight in­to the air.

‘Any­one?’ Snape said, ig­nor­ing Hermione. His twist­ed smile was back. ‘Are you telling me that Pro­fes­sor Lupin hasn’t even taught you the ba­sic dis­tinc­tion be­tween –’

‘We told you,’ said Par­vati sud­den­ly, ‘we haven’t got as far as were­wolves yet, we’re still on –’

‘Si­lence!’ snarled Snape. ‘Well, well, well, I nev­er thought I’d meet a third-​year class who wouldn’t even recog­nise a were­wolf when they saw one. I shall make a point of in­form­ing Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore how very be­hind you all are …’

‘Please, sir,’ said Hermione, whose hand was still in the air, ‘the were­wolf dif­fers from the true wolf in sev­er­al small ways. The snout of the were­wolf –’

‘That is the sec­ond time you have spo­ken out of turn, Miss Granger,’ said Snape cool­ly. ‘Five more points from Gryffind­or for be­ing an in­suf­fer­able know-​it-​all.’

Hermione went very red, put down her hand and stared at the floor with her eyes full of tears. It was a mark of how much the class loathed Snape that they were all glar­ing at him, be­cause ev­ery one of them had called Hermione a know-​it-​all at least once, and Ron, who told Hermione she was a know-​it-​all at least twice a week, said loud­ly, ‘You asked us a ques­tion and she knows the an­swer! Why ask if you don’t want to be told?’

The class knew in­stant­ly he’d gone too far. Snape ad­vanced on Ron slow­ly, and the room held its breath.

‘De­ten­tion, Weasley,’ Snape said silk­ily his face very close to Ron’s. ‘And if I ev­er hear you crit­icise the way I teach a class again, you will be very sor­ry in­deed.’

No one made a sound through­out the rest of the les­son. They sat and made notes on were­wolves from the text­book, while Snape prowled up and down the rows of desks, ex­am­in­ing the work they had been do­ing with Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

‘Very poor­ly ex­plained … that is in­cor­rect, the Kap­pa is more com­mon­ly found in Mon­go­lia … Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave this eight out of ten? I wouldn’t have giv­en it three …’

When the bell rang at last, Snape held them back.

‘You will each write an es­say, to be hand­ed in to me, on the ways you recog­nise and kill were­wolves. I want two rolls of parch­ment on the sub­ject, and I want them by Mon­day morn­ing. It is time some­body took this class in hand. Weasley, stay be­hind, we need to ar­range your de­ten­tion.’

Har­ry and Hermione left the room with the rest of the class, who wait­ed un­til they were well out of earshot, then burst in­to a fu­ri­ous tirade about Snape.

‘Snape’s nev­er been like this with any of our oth­er De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­ers, even if he did want the job,’ Har­ry said to Hermione. ‘Why’s he got it in for Lupin? D’you think this is all be­cause of the Bog­gart?’

‘I don’t know,’ said Hermione pen­sive­ly. ‘But I re­al­ly hope Pro­fes­sor Lupin gets bet­ter soon …’

Ron caught up with them five min­utes lat­er, in a tow­er­ing rage.

‘D’you know what that –’ (he called Snape some­thing that made Hermione say ‘Ron!’) ‘– is mak­ing me do? I’ve got to scrub out the bed­pans in the hos­pi­tal wing. With­out mag­ic!’ He was breath­ing deeply, his fists clenched. ‘Why couldn’t Black have hid­den in Snape’s of­fice, eh? He could have fin­ished him off for us!’

*

Har­ry woke ex­treme­ly ear­ly next morn­ing; so ear­ly that it was still dark. For a mo­ment he thought the roar­ing of the wind had wo­ken him, then he felt a cold breeze on the back of his neck and sat bolt up­right – Peeves the poltergeist had been float­ing next to him, blow­ing hard in his ear.

‘What did you do that for?’ said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly.

Peeves puffed out his cheeks, blew hard and zoomed back­wards out of the room, cack­ling.

Har­ry fum­bled for his alarm clock and looked at it. It was half past four. Curs­ing Peeves, he rolled over and tried to get back to sleep, but it was very dif­fi­cult, now he was awake, to ig­nore the sounds of the thun­der rum­bling over­head, the pound­ing of the wind against the cas­tle walls and the dis­tant creak­ing of the trees in the For­bid­den For­est. In a few hours he would be out on the Quid­ditch pitch, bat­tling through that gale. Fi­nal­ly he gave up any thought of more sleep, got up, dressed, picked up his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and walked qui­et­ly out of the dor­mi­to­ry.

As Har­ry opened the door, some­thing brushed against his leg. He bent down just in time to grab Crook­shanks by the end of his bushy tail, and drag him out­side.

‘You know, I reck­on Ron was right about you,’ Har­ry told Crook­shanks sus­pi­cious­ly. ‘There are plen­ty of mice around this place, go and chase them. Go on,’ he added, nudg­ing Crook­shanks down the spi­ral stair­case with his foot, ‘leave Scab­bers alone.’

The noise of the storm was even loud­er in the com­mon room. Har­ry knew bet­ter than to think the match would be can­celled; Quid­ditch match­es weren’t called off for tri­fles such as thun­der­storms. Nev­er­the­less, he was start­ing to feel very ap­pre­hen­sive. Wood had point­ed out Cedric Dig­gory to him in the cor­ri­dor; Dig­gory was a fifth year and a lot big­ger than Har­ry. Seek­ers were usu­al­ly light and speedy, but Dig­gory’s weight would be an ad­van­tage in this weath­er be­cause he was less like­ly to be blown off course.

Har­ry whiled away the hours un­til dawn in front of the fire, get­ting up ev­ery now and then to stop Crook­shanks sneak­ing up the boys’ stair­case again. At long last Har­ry thought it must be time for break­fast, so he head­ed through the por­trait hole alone.

‘Stand and fight, you mangy cur!’ yelled Sir Cado­gan.

‘Oh, shut up,’ Har­ry yawned.

He re­vived a bit over a large bowl of por­ridge, and by the time he’d start­ed on toast, the rest of the team had turned up.

‘It’s go­ing to be a tough one,’ said Wood, who wasn’t eat­ing any­thing.

‘Stop wor­ry­ing, Oliv­er,’ said Ali­cia sooth­ing­ly, ‘we don’t mind a bit of rain.’

But it was con­sid­er­ably more than a bit of rain. Such was the pop­ular­ity of Quid­ditch that the whole school turned out to watch the match as usu­al, but they ran down the lawns to­wards the Quid­ditch pitch, heads bowed against the fe­ro­cious wind, um­brel­las be­ing whipped out of their hands as they went. Just be­fore he en­tered the chang­ing room, Har­ry saw Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle laugh­ing and point­ing at him from un­der an enor­mous um­brel­la on their way to the sta­di­um.

The team changed in­to their scar­let robes and wait­ed for Wood’s usu­al pre-​match pep talk, but it didn’t come. He tried to speak sev­er­al times, made an odd gulp­ing noise, then shook his head hope­less­ly and beck­oned them to fol­low him.

The wind was so strong that they stag­gered side­ways as they walked out on­to the pitch. If the crowd was cheer­ing they couldn’t hear it over the fresh rolls of thun­der. Rain was splat­ter­ing over Har­ry’s glass­es. How on earth was he go­ing to see the Snitch in this?

The Huf­flepuffs were ap­proach­ing from the op­po­site side of the pitch, wear­ing ca­nary-​yel­low robes. The cap­tains walked up to each oth­er and shook hands; Dig­gory smiled at Wood but Wood now looked as though he had lock­jaw and mere­ly nod­ded. Har­ry saw Madam Hooch’s mouth form the words, ‘Mount your brooms.’ He pulled his right foot out of the mud with a squelch and swung it over his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand. Madam Hooch put her whis­tle to her lips and gave it a blast that sound­ed shrill and dis­tant – they were off.

Har­ry rose fast, but his Nim­bus was swerv­ing slight­ly with the wind. He held it as steady as he could and turned, squint­ing in­to the rain.

With­in five min­utes Har­ry was soaked to his skin and frozen, hard­ly able to see his team-​mates, let alone the tiny Snitch. He flew back­wards and for­wards across the pitch, past blurred red and yel­low shapes, with no idea of what was hap­pen­ing in the rest of the game. He couldn’t hear the com­men­tary over the wind. The crowd was hid­den be­neath a sea of cloaks and bat­tered um­brel­las. Twice Har­ry came very close to be­ing un­seat­ed by a Bludger; his vi­sion was so cloud­ed by the rain on his glass­es he hadn’t seen them com­ing.

He lost track of time. It was get­ting hard­er and hard­er to hold his broom straight. The sky was get­ting dark­er, as though night had de­cid­ed to come ear­ly. Twice Har­ry near­ly hit an­oth­er play­er, with­out know­ing whether it was a team-​mate or op­po­nent; ev­ery­one was now so wet, and the rain so thick, he could hard­ly tell them apart …

With the first flash of light­ning came the sound of Madam Hooch’s whis­tle; Har­ry could just see the out­line of Wood through the thick rain, ges­tur­ing him to the ground. The whole team splashed down in­to the mud.

‘I called for time out!’ Wood roared at his team. ‘Come on, un­der here –’ They hud­dled at the edge of the pitch un­der a large um­brel­la; Har­ry took off his glass­es and wiped them hur­ried­ly on his robes.

‘What’s the score?’

‘We’re fifty points up,’ said Wood, ‘but un­less we get the Snitch soon, we’ll be play­ing in­to the night.’

‘I’ve got no chance with these on,’ Har­ry said ex­as­per­at­ed­ly, wav­ing his glass­es.

At that very mo­ment, Hermione ap­peared at his shoul­der; she was hold­ing her cloak over her head and was, in­ex­pli­ca­bly, beam­ing.

‘I’ve had an idea, Har­ry! Give me your glass­es, quick!’

He hand­ed them to her and, as the team watched in amaze­ment, Hermione tapped them with her wand and said, ‘Im­per­vius!’

‘There!’ she said, hand­ing them back to Har­ry. ‘They’ll re­pel wa­ter!’

Wood looked as though he could have kissed her.

‘Bril­liant!’ he called hoarse­ly af­ter her, as she dis­ap­peared in­to the crowd. ‘OK, team, let’s go for it!’

Hermione’s spell had done the trick. Har­ry was still numb with cold, still wet­ter than he’d ev­er been in his life, but he could see. Full of fresh de­ter­mi­na­tion, he urged his broom through the tur­bu­lent air, star­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion for the Snitch, avoid­ing a Bludger, duck­ing be­neath Dig­gory, who was streak­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion …

There was an­oth­er clap of thun­der, fol­lowed im­me­di­ate­ly by forked light­ning. This was get­ting more and more dan­ger­ous. Har­ry need­ed to get the Snitch quick­ly –

He turned, in­tend­ing to head back to­wards the mid­dle of the pitch, but at that mo­ment, an­oth­er flash of light­ning il­lu­mi­nat­ed the stands, and Har­ry saw some­thing that dis­tract­ed him com­plete­ly: the sil­hou­ette of an enor­mous shag­gy black dog, clear­ly im­print­ed against the sky, mo­tion­less in the top­most, emp­ty row of seats.

Har­ry’s numb hands slipped on the broom han­dle and his Nim­bus dropped a few feet. Shak­ing his sod­den fringe out of his eyes, he squint­ed back in­to the stands. The dog had van­ished.

‘Har­ry!’ came Wood’s an­guished yell from the Gryffind­or goal­posts. ‘Har­ry, be­hind you!’

Har­ry looked wild­ly around. Cedric Dig­gory was pelt­ing up the pitch, and a tiny speck of gold was shim­mer­ing in the rain-​filled air be­tween them …

With a jolt of pan­ic, Har­ry threw him­self flat to the broom han­dle and zoomed to­wards the Snitch.

‘Come on!’ he growled at his Nim­bus, as the rain whipped his face. ‘Faster!’

But some­thing odd was hap­pen­ing. An eerie si­lence was falling across the sta­di­um. The wind, though as strong as ev­er, was for­get­ting to roar. It was as though some­one had turned off the sound, as though Har­ry had gone sud­den­ly deaf – what was go­ing on?

And then a hor­ri­bly fa­mil­iar wave of cold swept over him, in­side him, just as he be­came aware of some­thing mov­ing on the pitch be­low …

Be­fore he’d had time to think, Har­ry had tak­en his eyes off the Snitch and looked down.

At least a hun­dred De­men­tors, their hid­den faces point­ing up at him, were stand­ing be­low. It was as though freez­ing wa­ter was ris­ing in his chest, cut­ting at his in­sides. And then he heard it again … some­one was scream­ing, scream­ing in­side his head … a wom­an …

‘Not Har­ry, not Har­ry, please not Har­ry!’

‘Stand aside, you sil­ly girl … stand aside, now …’

‘Not Har­ry, please no, take me, kill me in­stead –’

Numb­ing, swirling white mist was fill­ing Har­ry’s brain … What was he do­ing? Why was he fly­ing? He need­ed to help her … she was go­ing to die … she was go­ing to be mur­dered …

He was falling, falling through the icy mist.

‘Not Har­ry! Please … have mer­cy … have mer­cy …’

A shrill voice was laugh­ing, the wom­an was scream­ing, and Har­ry knew no more.

*

‘Lucky the ground was so soft.’

‘I thought he was dead for sure.’

‘But he didn’t even break his glass­es.’

Har­ry could hear the voic­es whis­per­ing, but they made no sense what­so­ev­er. He didn’t have a clue where he was, or how he’d got there, or what he’d been do­ing be­fore he got there. All he knew was that ev­ery inch of him was aching as though it had been beat­en.

‘That was the scari­est thing I’ve ev­er seen in my life.’

Scari­est … the scari­est thing … hood­ed black fig­ures … cold … scream­ing …

Har­ry’s eyes snapped open. He was ly­ing in the hos­pi­tal wing. The Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team, spat­tered with mud from head to foot, was gath­ered around his bed. Ron and Hermione were al­so there, look­ing as though they’d just climbed out of a swim­ming pool.

‘Har­ry!’ said Fred, who looked ex­treme­ly white un­der­neath the mud. ‘How’re you feel­ing?’

It was as though Har­ry’s mem­ory was on fast for­ward. The light­ning … the Grim … the Snitch … and the De­men­tors …

‘What hap­pened?’ he said, sit­ting up so sud­den­ly they all gasped.

‘You fell off,’ said Fred. ‘Must’ve been – what – fifty feet?’

‘We thought you’d died,’ said Ali­cia, who was shak­ing.

Hermione made a small, squeaky noise. Her eyes were ex­treme­ly blood­shot.

‘But the match,’ said Har­ry. ‘What hap­pened? Are we hav­ing a re­play?’

No one said any­thing. The hor­ri­ble truth sank in­to Har­ry like a stone.

‘We didn’t – lose?’

‘Dig­gory got the Snitch,’ said George. ‘Just af­ter you fell. He didn’t re­alise what had hap­pened. When he looked back and saw you on the ground, he tried to call it off. Want­ed a re-​match. But they won fair and square … even Wood ad­mits it.’

‘Where is Wood?’ said Har­ry, sud­den­ly re­al­is­ing he wasn’t there.

‘Still in the show­ers,’ said Fred. ‘We think he’s try­ing to drown him­self.’

Har­ry put his face to his knees, his hands grip­ping his hair. Fred grabbed his shoul­der and shook it rough­ly.

‘C’mon, Har­ry, you’ve nev­er missed the Snitch be­fore.’

‘There had to be one time you didn’t get it,’ said George.

‘It’s not over yet,’ said Fred. ‘We lost by a hun­dred points, right? So if Huf­flepuff lose to Raven­claw and we beat Raven­claw and Slytherin …’

‘Huf­flepuff’ll have to lose by at least two hun­dred points,’ said George.

‘But if they beat Raven­claw …’

‘No way, Raven­claw are too good. But if Slytherin lose against Huf­flepuff …’

‘It all de­pends on the points – a mar­gin of a hun­dred ei­ther way –’

Har­ry lay there, not say­ing a word. They had lost … for the first time ev­er, he had lost a Quid­ditch match.

Af­ter ten min­utes or so, Madam Pom­frey came over to tell the team to leave him in peace.

‘We’ll come and see you lat­er,’ Fred told him. ‘Don’t beat your­self up, Har­ry, you’re still the best Seek­er we’ve ev­er had.’

The team trooped out, trail­ing mud be­hind them. Madam Pom­frey shut the door be­hind them look­ing dis­ap­prov­ing. Ron and Hermione moved near­er to Har­ry’s bed.

‘Dum­ble­dore was re­al­ly an­gry,’ Hermione said in a quak­ing voice. ‘I’ve nev­er seen him like that be­fore. He ran on­to the pitch as you fell, waved his wand, and you sort of slowed down be­fore you hit the ground. Then he whirled his wand at the De­men­tors. Shot sil­ver stuff at them. They left the sta­di­um straight away … he was fu­ri­ous they’d come in­to the grounds, we heard him –’

‘Then he mag­icked you on­to a stretch­er,’ said Ron. ‘And walked up to school with you float­ing on it. Ev­ery­one thought you were …’

His voice fad­ed away, but Har­ry hard­ly no­ticed. He was think­ing about what the De­men­tors had done to him … about the scream­ing voice. He looked up and saw Ron and Hermione look­ing at him so anx­ious­ly that he quick­ly cast around for some­thing mat­ter-​of-​fact to say.

‘Did some­one get my Nim­bus?’

Ron and Hermione looked quick­ly at each oth­er.

‘Er –’

‘What?’ said Har­ry, look­ing from one to the oth­er.

‘Well … when you fell off, it got blown away,’ said Hermione hes­itant­ly.

‘And?’

‘And it hit – it hit – oh, Har­ry – it hit the Whomp­ing Wil­low.’

Har­ry’s in­sides lurched. The Whomp­ing Wil­low was a very vi­olent tree which stood alone in the mid­dle of the grounds.

‘And?’ he said, dread­ing the an­swer.

‘Well, you know the Whomp­ing Wil­low,’ said Ron. ‘It – it doesn’t like be­ing hit.’

‘Pro­fes­sor Flitwick brought it back just be­fore you came round,’ said Hermione in a very small voice.

Slow­ly, she reached down for a bag at her feet, turned it up­side-​down and tipped a dozen bits of splin­tered wood and twig on­to the bed, the on­ly re­mains of Har­ry’s faith­ful, fi­nal­ly beat­en broom­stick.





