Chapter 10: The Hour of Gaunt


For or the rest of the week’s Po­tions lessons Har­ry con­tin­ued to fol­low the Half­Blood Prince’s in­struc­tions wher­ev­er they de­vi­at­ed from Li­batius Bor­age’s, with the re­sult that by their fourth les­son Slughorn was rav­ing about Har­rys abil­ities, say­ing that he had rarely taught any­one so tal­ent­ed. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was de­light­ed by this. Al­though Har­ry had of­fered to share his book with both of them, Ron had more dif­fi­cul­ty de­ci­pher­ing the hand­writ­ing than Har­ry did, and could not keep ask­ing Har­ry to read aloud or it might look sus­pi­cious. Hermione, mean­while, was res­olute­ly plow­ing on with what she called the “of­fi­cial” in­struc­tions, but be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly badtem­pered as they yield­ed poor­er re­sults than the Prince’s.

Har­ry won­dered vague­ly who the Half­Blood Prince had been. Al­though the amount of home­work they had been giv­en pre­vent­ed him from read­ing the whole of his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, he had skimmed through it suf­fi­cient­ly to see that there was bare­ly a page on which the Prince had not made ad­di­tion­al notes, not all of them con­cerned with po­tion­mak­ing. Here and there were di­rec­tions for what looked like spells that the Prince had made up him­self.

“Or her­self,” said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, over­hear­ing Har­ry point­ing some of these out to Ron in the com­mon room on Sat­ur­day evening. “It might have been a girl. I think the hand­writ­ing looks more like a girl’s than a boy’s.”

“The Half­Blood Prince, he was called,” Har­ry said. “How many girls have been Princes?”

Hermione seemed to have no an­swer to this. She mere­ly scowled and twitched her es­say on The Prin­ci­ples of Re­ma­te­ri­al­iza­tion away from Ron, who was try­ing to read it up­side down.

Har­ry looked at his watch and hur­ried­ly put the old copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing back in­to his bag.

“It’s five to eight, I’d bet­ter go, I’ll be late for Dum­ble­dore.”

“Ooooh!” gasped Hermione, look­ing up at once. “Good luck! We’ll wait up, we want to hear what he teach­es you!”

“Hope it goes okay,” said Ron, and the pair of them watched Har­ry leave through the por­trait hole.

Har­ry pro­ceed­ed through de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors, though he had to step hasti­ly be­hind a stat­ue when Pro­fes­sor Trelawney ap­peared around a cor­ner, mut­ter­ing to her­self as she shuf­fled a pack of dirty­look­ing play­ing cards, read­ing them as she walked.

“Two of spades: con­flict,” she mur­mured, as she passed the place where Har­ry crouched, hid­den. “Sev­en of spades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: vi­olence. Knave of spades: a dark young man, pos­si­bly trou­bled, one who dis­likes the ques­tion­er —”

She stopped dead, right on the oth­er side of Har­ry’s stat­ue.

“Well, that can’t be right,” she said, an­noyed, and Har­ry heard her reshuf­fling vig­or­ous­ly as she set off again, leav­ing noth­ing but a whiff of cook­ing sher­ry be­hind her. Har­ry wait­ed un­til he was quite sure she had gone, then hur­ried off again un­til he reached the spot in the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor where a sin­gle gar­goyle stood against the wall.

“Acid Pops,” said Har­ry, and the gar­goyle leapt aside; the wall be­hind it slid apart, and a mov­ing spi­ral stone stair­case was re­vealed, on­to which Har­ry stepped, so that he was car­ried in smooth cir­cles up to the door with the brass knock­er that led to Dum­ble­dore’s Of­fice.

Har­ry knocked.

“Come in,” said Dum­ble­dore s voice.

“Good evening, sir,” said Har­ry, walk­ing in­to the head­mas­ter’s of­fice.

“Ah, good evening, Har­ry. Sit down,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “I hope you’ve had an en­joy­able first week back at school?” “Yes, thanks, sir,” said Har­ry.

“You must have been busy, a de­ten­tion un­der your belt al­ready!” “Er,” be­gan Har­ry awk­ward­ly, but Dum­ble­dore did not look too stern.

“I have ar­ranged with Pro­fes­sor Snape that you will do your de­ten­tion next Sat­ur­day in­stead.”

“Right,” said Har­ry, who had more press­ing mat­ters on his mind than Snapes de­ten­tion, and now looked around sur­rep­ti­tious­ly for some in­di­ca­tion of what Dum­ble­dore was plan­ning to do with him this evening. The cir­cu­lar of­fice looked just as it al­ways did; the del­icate sil­ver in­stru­ments stood on spin­dle­legged ta­bles, puff­ing smoke and whirring; por­traits of pre­vi­ous head­mas­ters and head­mis­tress­es dozed in their frames, and Dum­ble­dore’s mag­nif­icent phoenix, Fawkes, stood on his perch be­hind the door, watch­ing Har­ry with bright in­ter­est. It did not even look as though Dum­ble­dore had cleared a space for du­el­ing prac­tice.

“So, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, in a busi­nesslike voice. “You have been won­der­ing, I am sure, what I have planned for you dur­ing these — for want of a bet­ter word — lessons?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, I have de­cid­ed that it is time, now that you know what prompt­ed Lord Volde­mort to try and kill you fif­teen years ago, for you to be giv­en cer­tain in­for­ma­tion.” There was a pause.

“You said, at the end of last term, you were go­ing to tell me ev­ery­thing,” said Har­ry. It was hard to keep a note of ac­cu­sa­tion from his voice. “Sir,” he added.

“And so I did,” said Dum­ble­dore placid­ly. “I told you ev­ery­thing I know. From this point forth, we shall be leav­ing the firm foun­da­tion of fact and jour­ney­ing to­geth­er through the murky marsh­es of mem­ory in­to thick­ets of wildest guess­work. From here on in, Har­ry, I may be as woe­ful­ly wrong as Humphrey Belch­er, who be­lieved the time was ripe for a cheese caul­dron.”

“But you think you’re right?” said Har­ry.

“Nat­ural­ly I do, but as I have al­ready proven to you, I make mis­takes like the next man. In fact, be­ing — for­give me — rather clev­er­er than most men, my mis­takes tend to be cor­re­spond­ing­ly huger.”

“Sir,” said Har­ry ten­ta­tive­ly, “does what you’re go­ing to tell me have any­thing to do with the prophe­cy? Will it help me . . . sur­vive?”

“It has a very great deal to do with the prophe­cy,” said Dum­ble­dore, as ca­su­al­ly as if Har­ry had asked him about the next days weath­er, “and I cer­tain­ly hope that it will help you to sur­vive.”

Dum­ble­dore got to his feet and walked around the desk, past Har­ry, who turned ea­ger­ly in his seat to watch Dum­ble­dore bend­ing over the cab­in­et be­side the door. When Dum­ble­dore straight­ened up, he was hold­ing a fa­mil­iar shal­low stone basin etched with odd mark­in­gs around its rim. He placed the Pen­sieve on the desk in front of Har­ry.

“You look wor­ried.”

Har­ry had in­deed been eye­ing the Pen­sieve with some ap­pre­hen­sion. His pre­vi­ous ex­pe­ri­ences with the odd de­vice that stored and re­vealed thoughts and mem­ories, though high­ly in­struc­tive, had al­so been un­com­fort­able. The last time he had dis­turbed its con­tents, he had seen much more than he would have wished. But Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing.

“This time, you en­ter the Pen­sieve with me . . . and, even more un­usu­al­ly, with per­mis­sion.”

“Where are we go­ing, sir?”

“For a trip down Bob Og­den’s mem­ory lane,” said Dum­ble­dore, pulling from his pock­et a crys­tal bot­tle con­tain­ing a swirling sil­very­white sub­stance.

“Who was Bob Og­den?”

“He was em­ployed by the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He died some time ago, but not be­fore I had tracked him down and per­suad­ed him to con­fide these rec­ol­lec­tions to me. We are about to ac­com­pa­ny him on a vis­it he made in the course of his du­ties. If you will stand, Har­ry …”

But Dum­ble­dore was hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty pulling out the stop­per of the crys­tal bot­tle: His in­ju­red hand seemed stiff and painful.

“Shall —shall I, sir?”

“No mat­ter, Har­ry —”

Dum­ble­dore point­ed his wand at the bot­tle and the cork flew out.

“Sir — how did you in­ju­re your hand?” Har­ry asked again, look­ing at the black­ened fin­gers with a mix­ture of re­vul­sion and pity.

“Now is not the mo­ment for that sto­ry, Har­ry. Not yet. We have an ap­point­ment with Bob Og­den.”

Dum­ble­dore tipped the sil­very con­tents of the bot­tle in­to the Pen­sieve, where they swirled and shim­mered, nei­ther liq­uid nor gas. “Af­ter you,” said Dum­ble­dore, ges­tur­ing to­ward the bowl. Har­ry bent for­ward, took a deep breath, and plunged his face in­to the sil­very sub­stance. He felt his feet leave the of­fice floor; he was falling, falling through whirling dark­ness and then, quite sud­den­ly, he was blink­ing in daz­zling sun­light. Be­fore his eyes had ad­just­ed, Dum­ble­dore land­ed be­side him.

They were stand­ing in a coun­try lane bor­dered by high, tan­gled hedgerows, be­neath a sum­mer sky as bright and blue as a for­get­menot. Some ten feet in front of them stood a short, plump man wear­ing enor­mous­ly thick glass­es that re­duced his eyes to mole­like specks. He was read­ing a wood­en sign­post that was stick­ing out of the bram­bles on the left­hand side of the road. Har­ry knew this must be Og­den; he was the on­ly per­son in sight, and he was al­so wear­ing the strange as­sort­ment of clothes so of­ten cho­sen by in­ex­pe­ri­enced wiz­ards try­ing to look like Mug­gles: in this case, a frock coat and spats over a striped one­piece bathing cos­tume. Be­fore Har­ry had time to do more than reg­is­ter his bizarre ap­pear­an­ce, how­ev­er, Og­den had set off at a brisk walk down the lane.

Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry fol­lowed. As they passed the wood­en sign, Har­ry looked up at its two arms. The one point­ing back the way they had come read: Great Hangle­ton, 5 miles. The arm point­ing af­ter Og­den said Lit­tle Hangle­ton, 1 mile.

They walked a short way with noth­ing to see but the hedgerows, the wide blue sky over­head and the swish­ing, frock­coat­ed fig­ure ahead. Then the lane curved to the left and fell away, slop­ing steeply down a hill­side, so that they had a sud­den, un­ex­pect­ed view of a whole val­ley laid out in front of them. Har­ry could see a vil­lage, un­doubt­ed­ly Lit­tle Hangle­ton, nes­tled be­tween two steep hills, its church and grave­yard clear­ly vis­ible. Across the val­ley, set on the op­po­site hill­side, was a hand­some manor house sur­round­ed by a wide ex­panse of vel­vety green lawn.

Og­den had bro­ken in­to a re­luc­tant trot due to the steep down­ward slope. Dum­ble­dore length­ened his stride, and Har­ry hur­ried to keep up. He thought Lit­tle Hangle­ton must be their fi­nal des­ti­na­tion and won­dered, as he had done on the night they had found Slughorn, why they had to ap­proach it from such a dis­tance. He soon dis­cov­ered that he was mis­tak­en in think­ing that they were go­ing to the vil­lage, how­ev­er. The lane curved to the right and when they round­ed the cor­ner, it was to see the very edge of Og­den’s frock coat van­ish­ing through a gap in the hedge.

Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry fol­lowed him on­to a nar­row dirt track bor­dered by high­er and wilder hedgerows than those they had left be­hind. The path was crooked, rocky, and pot­holed, slop­ing down­hill like the last one, and it seemed to be head­ing for a patch of dark trees a lit­tle be­low them. Sure enough, the track soon opened up at the copse, and Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry came to a halt be­hind Og­den, who had stopped and drawn his wand.

De­spite the cloud­less sky, the old trees ahead cast deep, dark, cool shad­ows, and it was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry’s eyes dis­cerned the build­ing halfhid­den amongst the tan­gle of trunks. It seemed to him a very strange lo­ca­tion to choose for a house, or else an odd de­ci­sion to leave the trees grow­ing near­by, block­ing all light and the view of the val­ley be­low. He won­dered whether it was in­hab­it­ed; its walls were mossy and so many tiles had fall­en off the roof that the rafters were vis­ible in places. Net­tles grew all around it, their tips reach­ing the win­dows, which were tiny and thick with grime. Just as he had con­clud­ed that no­body could pos­si­bly live there, how­ev­er, one of the win­dows was thrown open with a clat­ter, and a thin trick­le of steam or smoke is­sued from it, as though some­body was cook­ing.

Og­den moved for­ward qui­et­ly and, it seemed to Har­ry, rather cau­tious­ly. As the dark shad­ows of the trees slid over him, he stopped again, star­ing at the front door, to which some­body had nailed a dead snake.

Then there was a rus­tle and a crack, and a man in rags dropped from the near­est tree, land­ing on his feet right in front of Og­den, who leapt back­ward so fast he stood on the tails of his frock coat and stum­bled.

“You’re not wel­come.”

The man stand­ing be­fore them had thick hair so mat­ted with dirt it could have been any col­or. Sev­er­al of his teeth were miss­ing. His eyes were small and dark and stared in op­po­site di­rec­tions. He might have looked com­ical, but he did not; the ef­fect was fright­en­ing, and Har­ry could not blame Og­den for back­ing away sev­er­al more paces be­fore he spoke.

“Er — good morn­ing. I’m from the Min­istry of Mag­ic —” “You’re not wel­come.”

“Er — I’m sor­ry — I don’t un­der­stand you,” said Og­den ner­vous­ly.

Har­ry thought Og­den was be­ing ex­treme­ly dim; the stranger was mak­ing him­self very clear in Har­ry’s opin­ion, par­tic­ular­ly as he was bran­dish­ing a wand in one hand and a short and rather bloody knife in the oth­er.

“You un­der­stand him, I’m sure, Har­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Yes, of course,” said Har­ry, slight­ly non­plussed. “Why can’t Og­den — ?”

But as his eyes found the dead snake on the door again, he sud­den­ly un­der­stood.

“He’s speak­ing Parsel­tongue?”

“Very good,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding and smil­ing.

The man in rags was now ad­vanc­ing on Og­den, knife in one hand, wand in the oth­er.

“Now, look —” Og­den be­gan, but too late: There was a bang, and Og­den was on the ground, clutch­ing his nose, while a nasty yel­low­ish goo squirt­ed from be­tween his fin­gers.

“Morfin!” said a loud voice.

An el­der­ly man had come hur­ry­ing out of the cot­tage, bang­ing the door be­hind him so that the dead snake swung pa­thet­ical­ly. This man was short­er than the first, and odd­ly pro­por­tioned; his shoul­ders were very broad and his arms over­long, which, with his bright brown eyes, short scrub­by hair, and wrin­kled face, gave him the look of a pow­er­ful, aged mon­key. He came to a halt be­side the man with the knife, who was now cack­ling with laugh­ter at the sight of Og­den on the ground.

“Min­istry, is it?” said the old­er man, look­ing down at Og­den. “Cor­rect!” said Og­den an­gri­ly, dab­bing his face. “And you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?”

“S’right,” said Gaunt. “Got you in the face, did he?” “Yes, he did!” snapped Og­den.

“Should’ve made your pres­ence known, shouldn’t you?” said Gaunt ag­gres­sive­ly. “This is pri­vate prop­er­ty. Can’t just walk in here and not ex­pect my son to de­fend him­self.”

“De­fend him­self against what, man?” said Og­den, clam­ber­ing back to his feet.

“Busy­bod­ies. In­trud­ers. Mug­gles and filth.” Og­den point­ed his wand at his own nose, which was still is­su­ing large amounts of what looked like yel­low pus, and the flow stopped at once. Mr. Gaunt spoke out of the cor­ner of his mouth to Morfin. “Get in the house. Don’t ar­gue.”

This time, ready for it, Har­ry rec­og­nized Parsel­tongue; even while he could un­der­stand what was be­ing said, he dis­tin­guished the weird hiss­ing noise that was all Og­den could hear. Morfin seemed to be on the point of dis­agree­ing, but when his fa­ther cast him a threat­en­ing look he changed his mind, lum­ber­ing away to the cot­tage with an odd rolling gait and slam­ming the front door be­hind him, so that the snake swung sad­ly again.

“It’s your son I’m here to see, Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, as he mopped the last of the pus from the front of his coat. “That was Morfin, wasn’t it?”

“Ah, that was Morfin,” said the old man in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “Are you pure­blood?” he asked, sud­den­ly ag­gres­sive.

“That’s nei­ther here nor there,” said Og­den cold­ly, and Har­ry felt his re­spect for Og­den rise. Ap­par­ent­ly Gaunt felt rather dif­fer­ent­ly.

He squint­ed in­to Og­den’s face and mut­tered, in what was clear­ly sup­posed to be an of­fen­sive tone, “Now I come to think about it, I’ve seen noses like yours down in the vil­lage.”

“I don’t doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them,” said Og­den. “Per­haps we could con­tin­ue this dis­cus­sion in­side?”

“In­side?”

“Yes, Mr. Gaunt. I’ve al­ready told you. I’m here about Morfin. We sent an owl —”

“I’ve no use for owls,” said Gaunt. “I don’t open let­ters.”

“Then you can hard­ly com­plain that you get no warn­ing of vis­itors,” said Og­den tart­ly. “I am here fol­low­ing a se­ri­ous breach of Wiz­ard­ing law, which oc­curred here in the ear­ly hours of this morn­ing —”

“All right, all right, all right!” bel­lowed Gaunt. “Come in the bleed­ing house, then, and much good it’ll do you!”

The house seemed to con­tain three tiny rooms. Two doors led off the main room, which served as kitchen and liv­ing room com­bined. Morfin was sit­ting in a filthy arm­chair be­side the smok­ing fire, twist­ing a live adder be­tween his thick fin­gers and croon­ing soft­ly at it in Parsel­tongue:

Hissy, hissy, lit­tle snakey, Slith­er on the floor You be good to Morfin Or he’ll nail you to the door.

There was a scuf­fling noise in the cor­ner be­side the open win­dow, and Har­ry re­al­ized that there was some­body else in the room, a girl whose ragged gray dress was the ex­act col­or of the dirty stone wall be­hind her. She was stand­ing be­side a steam­ing pot on a grimy black stove, and was fid­dling around with the shelf of squalid­look­ing pots and pans above it. Her hair was lank and dull and she had a plain, pale, rather heavy face. Her eyes, like her broth­er’s, stared in op­po­site di­rec­tions. She looked a lit­tle clean­er than the two men, but Har­ry thought he had nev­er seen a more de­feat­ed­look­ing per­son.

“M’daugh­ter, Merope,” said Gaunt grudg­ing­ly, as Og­den looked in­quir­ing­ly to­ward her.

“Good morn­ing,” said Og­den.

She did not an­swer, but with a fright­ened glance at her fa­ther turned her back on the room and con­tin­ued shift­ing the pots on the shelf be­hind her.

“Well, Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, “to get straight to the point, we have rea­son to be­lieve that your son, Morfin, per­formed mag­ic in front of a Mug­gle late last night.”

There was a deaf­en­ing clang. Merope had dropped one of the pots.

“Pick it up!” Gaunt bel­lowed at her. “That’s it, grub on the floor like some filthy Mug­gle, what’s your wand for, you use­less sack of muck?”

“Mr. Gaunt, please!” said Og­den in a shocked voice, as Merope, who had al­ready picked up the pot, flushed blotchi­ly scar­let, lost her grip on the pot again, drew her wand shak­ily from her pock­et, point­ed it at the pot, and mut­tered a hasty, in­au­di­ble spell that caused the pot to shoot across the floor away from her, hit the op­po­site wall, and crack in two.

Morfin let out a mad cack­le of laugh­ter. Gaunt screamed, “Mend it, you point­less lump, mend it!”

Merope stum­bled across the room, but be­fore she had time to raise her wand, Og­den had lift­ed his own and said firm­ly, “Reparo. ” The pot mend­ed it­self in­stant­ly.

Gaunt looked for a mo­ment as though he was go­ing to shout at Og­den, but seemed to think bet­ter of it: In­stead, he jeered at his daugh­ter, “Lucky the nice man from the Min­istry’s here, isn’t it? Per­haps he’ll take you off my hands, per­haps he doesn’t mind dirty Squibs. . . .”

With­out look­ing at any­body or thank­ing Og­den, Merope picked up the pot and re­turned it, hands trem­bling, to its shelf. She then stood quite still, her back against the wall be­tween the filthy win­dow and the stove, as though she wished for noth­ing more than to sink in­to the stone and van­ish.

“Mr. Gaunt,” Og­den be­gan again, “as I’ve said: the rea­son for my vis­it —”

“I heard you the first time!” snapped Gaunt. “And so what? Morfin gave a Mug­gle a bit of what was com­ing to him — what about it, then?”

“Morfin has bro­ken Wiz­ard­ing law,” said Og­den stern­ly.

“‘Morfin has bro­ken Wiz­ard­ing law.’” Gaunt im­itat­ed Og­den’s voice, mak­ing it pompous and singsong. Morfin cack­led again. “He taught a filthy Mug­gle a les­son, that’s il­le­gal now, is it?”

“Yes,” said Og­den. “I’m afraid it is.”

He pulled from an in­side pock­et a small scroll of parch­ment and un­rolled it.

“What’s that, then, his sen­tence?” said Gaunt, his voice ris­ing an­gri­ly.

“It is a sum­mons to the Min­istry for a hear­ing —”

“Sum­mons! Sum­mons? Who do you think you are, sum­mon­ing my son any­where?”

“I’m Head of the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad,” said Og­den.

“And you think we’re scum, do you?” screamed Gaunt, ad­vanc­ing on Og­den now, with a dirty yel­low­nailed fin­ger point­ing at his chest. “Scum who’ll come run­ning when the Min­istry tells ‘em to? Do you know who you’re talk­ing to, you filthy lit­tle Mud­blood, do you?”

“I was un­der the im­pres­sion that I was speak­ing to Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, look­ing wary, but stand­ing his ground.

“That’s right!” roared Gaunt. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Gaunt was mak­ing an ob­scene hand ges­ture, but then re­al­ized that he was show­ing Og­den the ug­ly, black­stoned ring he was wear­ing on his mid­dle fin­ger, wav­ing it be­fore Og­den’s eyes. “See this? See this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? Cen­turies it’s been in our fam­ily, that’s how far back we go, and pure­blood all the way! Know how much I’ve been of­fered for this, with the Peverell coat of arms en­graved on the stone?”

“I’ve re­al­ly no idea,” said Og­den, blink­ing as the ring sailed with­in an inch of his nose, “and it’s quite be­side the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has com­mit­ted —”

With a howl of rage, Gaunt ran to­ward his daugh­ter. For a split sec­ond, Har­ry thought he was go­ing to throt­tle her as his hand flew to her throat; next mo­ment, he was drag­ging her to­ward Og­den by a gold chain around her neck.

“See this?” he bel­lowed at Og­den, shak­ing a heavy gold lock­et at him, while Merope splut­tered and gasped for breath.

“I see it, I see it!” said Og­den hasti­ly.

“Slytherins!” yelled Gaunt. “Salazar Slytherin’s! We’re his last liv­ing de­scen­dants, what do you say to that, eh?”

“Mr. Gaunt, your daugh­ter!” said Og­den in alarm, but Gaunt had al­ready re­leased Merope; she stag­gered away from him, back to her cor­ner, mas­sag­ing her neck and gulp­ing for air.

“So!” said Gaunt tri­umphant­ly, as though he had just proved a com­pli­cat­ed point be­yond all pos­si­ble dis­pute. “Don’t you go talk­ing to us as if we’re dirt on your shoes! Gen­er­ations of pure­bloods, wiz­ards all — more than you can say, I don’t doubt!”

And he spat on the floor at Og­dens feet. Morfin cack­led again. Merope, hud­dled be­side the win­dow, her head bowed and her face hid­den by her lank hair, said noth­ing.

“Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den dogged­ly, “I am afraid that nei­ther your an­ces­tors nor mine have any­thing to do with the mat­ter in hand. I am here be­cause of Morfin, Morfin and the Mug­gle he ac­cost­ed late last night. Our in­for­ma­tion” — he glanced down at his scroll of parch­ment — “is that Morfin per­formed a jinx or hex on the said Mug­gle, caus­ing him to erupt in high­ly painful hives.”

Morfin gig­gled.

“Be qui­et, boy,” snarled Gaunt in Parsel­tongue, and Morfin fell silent again.

“And so what if he did, then?” Gaunt said de­fi­ant­ly to Og­den, “I ex­pect you’ve wiped the Mug­gle’s filthy face clean for him, and his mem­ory to boot—”

“That’s hard­ly the point, is it, Mr. Gaunt?” said Og­den. “This was an un­pro­voked at­tack on a de­fense­less —”

“Ar, I had you marked out as a Mug­glelover the mo­ment I saw you,” sneered Gaunt, and he spat on the floor again.

“This dis­cus­sion is get­ting us nowhere,” said Og­den firm­ly. “It is clear from your son’s at­ti­tude that he feels no re­morse for his ac­tions.” He glanced down at his scroll of parch­ment again. “Morfin will at­tend a hear­ing on the four­teenth of Septem­ber to an­swer the charges of us­ing mag­ic in front of a Mug­gle and caus­ing harm and dis­tress to that same Mugg —”

Og­den broke off. The jin­gling, clop­ping sounds of hors­es and loud, laugh­ing voic­es were drift­ing in through the open win­dow. Ap­par­ent­ly the wind­ing lane to the vil­lage passed very close to the copse where the house stood. Gaunt froze, lis­ten­ing, his eyes wide. Morfin hissed and turned his face to­ward the sounds, his ex­pres­sion hun­gry. Merope raised her head. Her face, Har­ry saw, was stark­ly white.

“My God, what an eye­sore!” rang out a girl’s voice, as clear­ly au­di­ble through the open win­dow as if she had stood in the room be­side them. “Couldn’t your fa­ther have that hov­el cleared away, Tom?”

“It’s not ours,” said a young man’s voice. “Ev­ery­thing on the oth­er side of the val­ley be­longs to us, but that cot­tage be­longs to an old tramp called Gaunt, and his chil­dren. The son’s quite mad, you should hear some of the sto­ries they tell in the vil­lage —”

The girl laughed. The jin­gling, clop­ping nois­es were grow­ing loud­er and loud­er. Morfin made to get out of his arm­chair. “Keep your seat,” said his fa­ther warn­ing­ly, in Parsel­tongue.

“Tom,” said the girl’s voice again, now so close they were clear­ly right be­side the house, “I might be wrong — but has some­body nailed a snake to that door?”

“Good lord, you’re right!” said the man’s voice. “That’ll be the son, I told you he’s not right in the head. Don’t look at it, Ce­cil­ia, dar­ling.”

The jin­gling and clop­ping sounds were now grow­ing faint again.

“‘Dar­ling,’” whis­pered Morfin in Parsel­tongue, look­ing at his sis­ter. “‘Dar­ling, he called her. So he wouldn’t have you any­way.”

Merope was so white Har­ry felt sure she was go­ing to faint.

“What’s that?” said Gaunt sharply, al­so in Parsel­tongue, look­ing from his son to his daugh­ter. “What did you say, Morfin?”

“She likes look­ing at that Mug­gle,” said Morfin, a vi­cious ex­pres­sion on his face as he stared at his sis­ter, who now looked ter­ri­fied. “Al­ways in the gar­den when he pass­es, peer­ing through the hedge at him, isn’t she? And last night — “

Merope shook her head jerk­ily, im­plor­ing­ly, but Morfin went on ruth­less­ly, “Hang­ing out of the win­dow wait­ing for him to ride home, wasn’t she?”

“Hang­ing out of the win­dow to look at a Mug­gle?” said Gaunt qui­et­ly.

All three of the Gaunts seemed to have for­got­ten Og­den, who was look­ing both be­wil­dered and ir­ri­tat­ed at this re­newed out­break of in­com­pre­hen­si­ble hiss­ing and rasp­ing.

“Is it true?” said Gaunt in a dead­ly voice, ad­vanc­ing a step or two to­ward the ter­ri­fied girl. “My daugh­ter—pure­blood­ed de­scen­dant of Salazar Slytherin — han­ker­ing af­ter a filthy, dirtveined Mug­gle?”

Merope shook her head fran­ti­cal­ly, press­ing her­self in­to the wall, ap­par­ent­ly un­able to speak.

“But I got him, Fa­ther!” cack­led Morfin. “I got him as he went by and he didn’t look so pret­ty with hives all over him, did he, Merope?”

“You dis­gust­ing lit­tle Squib, you filthy lit­tle blood traitor!” roared Gaunt, los­ing con­trol, and his hands closed around his daugh­ter’s throat.

Both Har­ry and Og­den yelled “No!” at the same time; Og­den raised his wand and cried, “Re­laskio!”

Gaunt was thrown back­ward, away from his daugh­ter; he tripped over a chair and fell flat on his back. With a roar of rage, Morfin leapt out of his chair and ran at Og­den, bran­dish­ing his bloody knife and fir­ing hex­es in­dis­crim­inate­ly from his wand.

Og­den ran for his life. Dum­ble­dore in­di­cat­ed that they ought to fol­low and Har­ry obeyed, Merope’s screams echo­ing in his ears.

Og­den hur­tled up the path and erupt­ed on­to the main lane, his arms over his head, where he col­lid­ed with the glossy chest­nut horse rid­den by a very hand­some, dark­haired young man. Both he and the pret­ty girl rid­ing be­side him on a gray horse roared with laugh­ter at the sight of Og­den, who bounced off the horse’s flank and set off again, his frock coat fly­ing, cov­ered from head to foot in dust, run­ning pellmell up the lane.

“I think that will do, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. He took Har­ry by the el­bow and tugged. Next mo­ment, they were both soar­ing weight­less­ly through dark­ness, un­til they land­ed square­ly on their feet, back in Dum­ble­dore’s now twilit of­fice.

“What hap­pened to the girl in the cot­tage?” said Har­ry at once, as Dum­ble­dore lit ex­tra lamps with a flick of his wand. “Merope, or what­ev­er her name was?”

“Oh, she sur­vived,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­seat­ing him­self be­hind his desk and in­di­cat­ing that Har­ry should sit down too. “Og­den Ap­pa­rat­ed back to the Min­istry and re­turned with re­in­force­ments with­in fif­teen min­utes. Morfin and his fa­ther at­tempt­ed to fight, but both were over­pow­ered, re­moved from the cot­tage, and sub­se­quent­ly con­vict­ed by the Wiz­eng­amot. Morfin, who al­ready had a record of Mug­gle at­tacks, was sen­tenced to three years in Azk­aban. Mar­vo­lo, who had in­ju­red sev­er­al Min­istry em­ploy­ees in ad­di­tion to Og­den, re­ceived six months.”

“Mar­vo­lo?” Har­ry re­peat­ed won­der­ing­ly.

“That’s right,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing in ap­proval. “I am glad to see you’re keep­ing up.”

“That old man was — ?”

“Volde­mort’s grand­fa­ther, yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Mar­vo­lo, his son, Morfin, and his daugh­ter, Merope, were the last of the Gaunts, a very an­cient Wiz­ard­ing fam­ily not­ed for a vein of in­sta­bil­ity and vi­olence that flour­ished through the gen­er­ations due to their habit of mar­ry­ing their own cousins. Lack of sense cou­pled with a great lik­ing for grandeur meant that the fam­ily gold was squan­dered sev­er­al gen­er­ations be­fore Mar­vo­lo was born. He, as you saw, was left in squalor and pover­ty, with a very nasty tem­per, a fan­tas­tic amount of ar­ro­gance and pride, and a cou­ple of fam­ily heir­looms that he trea­sured just as much as his son, and rather more than his daugh­ter.”

“So Merope,” said Har­ry, lean­ing for­ward in his chair and star­ing at Dum­ble­dore, “so Merope was . . . Sir, does that mean she was . . . Volde­mort’s moth­er?”

“It does,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And it so hap­pens that we al­so had a glimpse of Volde­mort’s fa­ther. I won­der whether you no­ticed?”

“The Mug­gle Morfin at­tacked? The man on the horse?”

“Very good in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing. “Yes, that was Tom Rid­dle se­nior, the hand­some Mug­gle who used to go rid­ing past the Gaunt cot­tage and for whom Merope Gaunt cher­ished a se­cret, burn­ing pas­sion.”

“And they end­ed up mar­ried?” Har­ry said in dis­be­lief, un­able to imag­ine two peo­ple less like­ly to fall in love.

“I think you are for­get­ting,” said Dum­ble­dore, “that Merope was a witch. I do not be­lieve that her mag­ical pow­ers ap­peared to their best ad­van­tage when she was be­ing ter­ror­ized by her fa­ther. Once Mar­vo­lo and Morfin were safe­ly in Azk­aban, once she was alone and free for the first time in her life, then, I am sure, she was able to give full rein to her abil­ities and to plot her es­cape from the des­per­ate life she had led for eigh­teen years.”

“Can you not think of any mea­sure Merope could have tak­en to make Tom Rid­dle for­get his Mug­gle com­pan­ion, and fall in love with her in­stead?”

“The Im­perius Curse?” Har­ry sug­gest­ed. “Or a love po­tion?”

“Very good. Per­son­al­ly, I am in­clined to think that she used a love po­tion. I am sure it would have seemed more ro­man­tic to her, and I do not think it would have been very dif­fi­cult, some hot day, when Rid­dle was rid­ing alone, to per­suade him to take a drink of wa­ter. In any case, with­in a few months of the scene we have just wit­nessed, the vil­lage of Lit­tle Hangle­ton en­joyed a tremen­dous scan­dal. You can imag­ine the gos­sip it caused when the squire’s son ran off with the tramp’s daugh­ter, Merope.”

“But the vil­lagers’ shock was noth­ing to Mar­vo­lo’s. He re­turned from Azk­aban, ex­pect­ing to find his daugh­ter du­ti­ful­ly await­ing his re­turn with a hot meal ready on his ta­ble. In­stead, he found a clear inch of dust and her note of farewell, ex­plain­ing what she had done.”

“From all that I have been able to dis­cov­er, he nev­er men­tioned her name or ex­is­tence from that time forth. The shock of her de­ser­tion may have con­trib­ut­ed to his ear­ly death — or per­haps he had sim­ply nev­er learned to feed him­self. Azk­aban had great­ly weak­ened Mar­vo­lo, and he did not live to see Morfin re­turn to the cot­tage.”

“And Merope? She … she died, didn’t she? Wasn’t Volde­mort brought up in an or­phan­age?”

“Yes, in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore. “We must do a cer­tain amount of guess­ing here, al­though I do not think it is dif­fi­cult to de­duce what hap­pened. You see, with­in a few months of their run­away mar­riage, Tom Rid­dle reap­peared at the manor house in Lit­tle Hangle­ton with­out his wife. The ru­mor flew around the neigh­bor­hood that he was talk­ing of be­ing ‘hood­winked’ and ‘tak­en in.’ What he meant, I am sure, is that he had been un­der an en­chant­ment that had now lift­ed, though I dare­say he did not dare use those pre­cise words for fear of be­ing thought in­sane. When they heard what he was say­ing, how­ev­er, the vil­lagers guessed that Merope had lied to Tom Rid­dle, pre­tend­ing that she was go­ing to have his ba­by, and that he had mar­ried her for this rea­son.”

“But she did have his ba­by.”

“But not un­til a year af­ter they were mar­ried. Tom Rid­dle left her while she was still preg­nant.”

“What went wrong?” asked Har­ry. “Why did the love po­tion stop work­ing?”

“Again, this is guess­work,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but I be­lieve that Merope, who was deeply in love with her hus­band, could not bear to con­tin­ue en­slav­ing him by mag­ical means. I be­lieve that she made the choice to stop giv­ing him the po­tion. Per­haps, be­sot­ted as she was, she had con­vinced her­self that he would by now have fall­en in love with her in re­turn. Per­haps she thought he would stay for the ba­by’s sake. If so, she was wrong on both counts. He left her, nev­er saw her again, and nev­er trou­bled to dis­cov­er what be­came of his son.”

The sky out­side was inky black and the lamps in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice seemed to glow more bright­ly than be­fore.

“I think that will do for tonight, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore af­ter a mo­ment or two.

“Yes, sir,” said Har­ry.

He got to his feet, but did not leave.

“Sir … is it im­por­tant to know all this about Volde­mort’s past?”

“Very im­por­tant, I think,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“And it… it’s got some­thing to do with the prophe­cy?”

“It has ev­ery­thing to do with the prophe­cy.”

“Right,” said Har­ry, a lit­tle con­fused, but re­as­sured all the same.

He turned to go, then an­oth­er ques­tion oc­curred to him, and he turned back again. “Sir, am I al­lowed to tell Ron and Hermione ev­ery­thing you’ve told me?”

Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered him for a mo­ment, then said, “Yes, I think Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger have proved them­selves trust­wor­thy. But Har­ry, I am go­ing to ask you to ask them not to re­peat any of this to any­body else. It would not be a good idea if word got around how much I know, or sus­pect, about Lord Volde­mort’s se­crets.”

“No, sir, I’ll make sure it’s just Ron and Hermione. Good night.”

He turned away again, and was al­most at the door when he saw it. Sit­ting on one of the lit­tle spin­dle­legged ta­bles that sup­port­ed so many frail­look­ing sil­ver in­stru­ments, was an ug­ly gold ring set with a large, cracked, black stone.

“Sir,” said Har­ry, star­ing at it. “That ring—”

“Yes?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“You were wear­ing it when we vis­it­ed Pro­fes­sor Slughorn that night.”

“So I was,” Dum­ble­dore agreed.

“But isn’t it… sir, isn’t it the same ring Mar­vo­lo Gaunt showed Og­den?”

Dum­ble­dore bowed his head. “The very same.”

“But how come — ? Have you al­ways had it?”

“No, I ac­quired it very re­cent­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “A few days be­fore I came to fetch you from your aunt and un­cle’s, in fact.”

“That would be around the time you in­ju­red your hand, then, sir?”

“Around that time, yes, Har­ry.”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing.

“Sir, how ex­act­ly — ?”

“Too late, Har­ry! You shall hear the sto­ry an­oth­er time. Good night.”

“Good night, sir.”





