Chapter 11: Hermione’s helping hand


As Hermione had pre­dict­ed, the sixth years’ free pe­ri­ods were not the hours of bliss­ful re­lax­ation Ron had an­tic­ipat­ed, but times in which to at­tempt to keep up with the vast amount of home­work they were be­ing set. Not on­ly were they study­ing as though they had ex­ams ev­ery day, but the lessons them­selves had be­come more de­mand­ing than ev­er be­fore. Har­ry bare­ly un­der­stood half of what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said to them these days; even Hermione had had to ask her to re­peat in­struc­tions once or twice. In­cred­ibly, and to Hermione’s in­creas­ing re­sent­ment, Har­ry’s best sub­ject had sud­den­ly be­come Po­tions, thanks to the Half­Blood Prince.

Non­ver­bal spells were now ex­pect­ed, not on­ly in De­fense Against the Dark Arts, but in Charms and Trans­fig­ura­tion too. Har­ry fre­quent­ly looked over at his class­mates in the com­mon room or at meal­times to see them pur­ple in the face and strain­ing as though they had over­dosed on UN­oPoo; but he knew that they were re­al­ly strug­gling to make spells work with­out say­ing in­can­ta­tions aloud. It was a re­lief to get out­side in­to the green­hous­es; they were deal­ing with more dan­ger­ous plants than ev­er in Her­bol­ogy, but at least they were still al­lowed to swear loud­ly if the Ven­omous Ten­tac­ula seized them un­ex­pect­ed­ly from be­hind.

One re­sult of their enor­mous work­load and the fran­tic hours of prac­tic­ing non­ver­bal spells was that Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had so far been un­able to find time to go and vis­it Ha­grid. He had stopped com­ing to meals at the staff ta­ble, an omi­nous sign, and on the few oc­ca­sions when they had passed him in the cor­ri­dors or out in the grounds, he had mys­te­ri­ous­ly failed to no­tice them or hear their greet­in­gs.

“We’ve got to go and ex­plain,” said Hermione, look­ing up at Ha­grid’s huge emp­ty chair at the staff ta­ble the fol­low­ing Sat­ur­day at break­fast.

“We’ve got Quid­ditch try­outs this morn­ing!” said Ron. “And we’re sup­posed to be prac­tic­ing that Agua­men­ti Charm from Flitwick! Any­way, ex­plain what? How are we go­ing to tell him we hat­ed his stupid sub­ject?”

“We didn’t hate it!” said Hermione.

“Speak for your­self, I haven’t for­got­ten the skrewts,” said Ron dark­ly. “And I’m telling you now, we’ve had a nar­row es­cape. You didn’t hear him go­ing on about his gorm­less broth­er — we’d have been teach­ing Grawp how to tie his shoelaces if we’d stayed.”

“I hate not talk­ing to Ha­grid,” said Hermione, look­ing up­set.

“We’ll go down af­ter Quid­ditch,” Har­ry as­sured her. He too was miss­ing Ha­grid, al­though like Ron he thought that they were bet­ter off with­out Grawp in their lives. “But tri­als might take all morn­ing, the num­ber of peo­ple who have ap­plied.” He felt slight­ly ner­vous at con­fronting the first hur­dle of his Cap­tain­cy. “I dun­no why the team’s this pop­ular all of a sud­den.”

“Oh, come on, Har­ry,” said Hermione, sud­den­ly im­pa­tient. “It’s not Quid­ditch that’s pop­ular, it’s you! You’ve nev­er been more in­ter­est­ing, and frankly, you’ve nev­er been more fan­cia­ble.”

Ron gagged on a large piece of kip­per. Hermione spared him one look of dis­dain be­fore turn­ing back to Har­ry.

“Ev­ery­one knows you’ve been telling the truth now, don’t they? The whole Wiz­ard­ing world has had to ad­mit that you were right about Volde­mort be­ing back and that you re­al­ly have fought him twice in the last two years and es­caped both times. And now they’re call­ing you ‘the Cho­sen One’ — well, come on, can’t you see why peo­ple are fas­ci­nat­ed by you?”

Har­ry was find­ing the Great Hall very hot all of a sud­den, even though the ceil­ing still looked cold and rainy.

“And you’ve been through all that per­se­cu­tion from the Min­istry when they were try­ing to make out you were un­sta­ble and a liar. You can still see the marks on the back of your hand where that evil wom­an made you write with your own blood, but you stuck to your sto­ry any­way. …”

“You can still see where those brains got hold of me in the Min­istry, look,” said Ron, shak­ing back his sleeves.

“And it doesn’t hurt that you’ve grown about a foot over the sum­mer ei­ther,” Hermione fin­ished, ig­nor­ing Ron.

“I’m tall,” said Ron in­con­se­quen­tial­ly.

The post owls ar­rived, swoop­ing down through rain­flecked win­dows, scat­ter­ing ev­ery­one with droplets of wa­ter. Most peo­ple were re­ceiv­ing more post than usu­al; anx­ious par­ents were keen to hear from their chil­dren and to re­as­sure them, in turn, that all was well at home. Har­ry had re­ceived no mail since the start of term; his on­ly reg­ular cor­re­spon­dent was now dead and al­though he had hoped that Lupin might write oc­ca­sion­al­ly, he had so far been dis­ap­point­ed. He was very sur­prised, there­fore, to see the snowy white Hed­wig cir­cling amongst all the brown and gray owls. She land­ed in front of him car­ry­ing a large, square pack­age. A mo­ment lat­er, an iden­ti­cal pack­age land­ed in front of Ron, crush­ing be­neath it his mi­nus­cule and ex­haust­ed owl, Pig­wid­geon.

“Ha!” said Har­ry, un­wrap­ping the par­cel to re­veal a new copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, fresh from Flour­ish and Blotts.

“Oh good,” said Hermione, de­light­ed. “Now you can give that graf­fi­tied copy back.”

“Are you mad?” said Har­ry. “I’m keep­ing it! Look, I’ve thought it out —”

He pulled the old copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and tapped the cov­er with his wand, mut­ter­ing, “Di­jjin­do!” The cov­er fell off. He did the same thing with the brand­new book (Hermione looked scan­dal­ized). He then swapped the cov­ers, tapped each, and said, “Reparo!”

There sat the Prince’s copy, dis­guised as a new book, and there sat the fresh copy from Flour­ish and Blotts, look­ing thor­ough­ly sec­ond­hand.

“I’ll give Slughorn back the new one, he can’t com­plain, it cost nine Galleons.”

Hermione pressed her lips to­geth­er, look­ing an­gry and dis­ap­prov­ing, but was dis­tract­ed by a third owl land­ing in front of her car­ry­ing that day’s copy of the Dai­ly Prophet. She un­fold­ed it hasti­ly and scanned the front page.

“Any­one we know dead?” asked Ron in a de­ter­mined­ly ca­su­al voice; he posed the same ques­tion ev­ery time Hermione opened her pa­per.

“No, but there have been more de­men­tor at­tacks,” said Hermione. “And an ar­rest.”

“Ex­cel­lent, who?” said Har­ry, think­ing of Bel­la­trix Lestrange. “Stan Shun­pike,” said Hermione.

“What?” said Har­ry, star­tled.

“‘Stan­ley Shun­pike, con­duc­tor on the pop­ular Wiz­ard­ing con­veyance the Knight Bus, has been ar­rest­ed on sus­pi­cion of Death Eater ac­tiv­ity. Mr. Shun­pike, 21, was tak­en in­to cus­tody late last night af­ter a raid on his Clapham home. . .’”

“Stan Shun­pike, a Death Eater?” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the spot­ty youth he had first met three years be­fore. “No way!”

“He might have been put un­der the Im­perius Curse,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “You nev­er can tell.”

“It doesn’t look like it,” said Hermione, who was still read­ing. “It says here he was ar­rest­ed af­ter he was over­heard talk­ing about the Death Eaters’ se­cret plans in a pub.” She looked up with a trou­bled ex­pres­sion on her face. “If he was un­der the Im­perius Curse, he’d hard­ly stand around gos­sip­ing about their plans, would he?”

“It sounds like he was try­ing to make out he knew more than he did,” said Ron. “Isn’t he the one who claimed he was go­ing to be­come Min­is­ter of Mag­ic when he was try­ing to chat up those veela?”

“Yeah, that’s him,” said Har­ry. “I dun­no what they’re play­ing at, tak­ing Stan se­ri­ous­ly.”

“They prob­ably want to look as though they’re do­ing some­thing,” said Hermione, frown­ing. “Peo­ple are ter­ri­fied — you know the Patil twins’ par­ents want them to go home? And Eloise Midgen has al­ready been with­drawn. Her fa­ther picked her up last night.”

“What!” said Ron, gog­gling at Hermione. “But Hog­warts is safer than their homes, bound to be! We’ve got Au­rors, and all those ex­tra pro­tec­tive spells, and we’ve got Dum­ble­dore!”

“I don’t think we’ve got him all the time,” said Hermione very qui­et­ly, glanc­ing to­ward the staff ta­ble over the top of the Prophet. “Haven’t you no­ticed? His seat’s been emp­ty as of­ten as Ha­grid’s this past week.”

Har­ry and Ron looked up at the staff ta­ble. The head­mas­ter’s chair was in­deed emp­ty. Now Har­ry came to think of it, he had not seen Dum­ble­dore since their pri­vate les­son a week ago.

“I think he’s left the school to do some­thing with the Or­der,” said Hermione in a low voice. “I mean . . . it’s all look­ing se­ri­ous, isn’t it?”

Har­ry and Ron did not an­swer, but Har­ry knew that they were all think­ing the same thing. There had been a hor­ri­ble in­ci­dent the day be­fore, when Han­nah Ab­bott had been tak­en out of Her­bol­ogy to be told her moth­er had been found dead. They had not seen Han­nah since.

When they left the Gryffind­or ta­ble five min­utes lat­er to head down to the Quid­ditch pitch, they passed Laven­der Brown and Par­vati Patil. Re­mem­ber­ing what Hermione had said about the Patil twins’ par­ents want­ing them to leave Hog­warts, Har­ry was un­sur­prised to see that the two best friends were whis­per­ing to­geth­er, look­ing dis­tressed. What did sur­prise him was that when Ron drew lev­el with them, Par­vati sud­den­ly nudged Laven­der, who looked around and gave Ron a wide smile. Ron blinked at her, then re­turned the smile un­cer­tain­ly. His walk in­stant­ly be­came some­thing more like a strut. Har­ry re­sist­ed the temp­ta­tion to laugh, re­mem­ber­ing that Ron had re­frained from do­ing so af­ter Mal­foy had bro­ken Har­ry’s nose; Hermione, how­ev­er, looked cold and dis­tant all the way down to the sta­di­um through the cool, misty driz­zle, and de­part­ed to find a place in the stands with­out wish­ing Ron good luck.

As Har­ry had ex­pect­ed, the tri­als took most of the morn­ing. Half of Gryffind­or House seemed to have turned up, from first years who were ner­vous­ly clutch­ing a se­lec­tion of the dread­ful old school brooms, to sev­enth years who tow­ered over the rest, look­ing cool­ly in­tim­idat­ing. The lat­ter in­clud­ed a large, wiry­haired boy Har­ry rec­og­nized im­me­di­ate­ly from the Hog­warts Ex­press.

“We met on the train, in old Slug­gy’s com­part­ment,” he said con­fi­dent­ly, step­ping out of the crowd to shake Har­ry’s hand. “Cor­mac McLaggen, Keep­er.”

“You didn’t try out last year, did you?” asked Har­ry, tak­ing note of the breadth of McLaggen and think­ing that he would prob­ably block all three goal hoops with­out even mov­ing.

“I was in the hos­pi­tal wing when they held the tri­als,” said McLaggen, with some­thing of a swag­ger. “Ate a pound of doxy eggs for a bet.”

“Right,” said Har­ry. “Well. . . if you wait over there …” He point­ed over to the edge of the pitch, close to where Hermione was sit­ting. He thought he saw a flick­er of an­noy­an­ce pass over McLaggen’s face and won­dered whether McLaggen ex­pect­ed pref­er­en­tial treat­ment be­cause they were both “old Slug­gy’s” fa­vorites. Har­ry de­cid­ed to start with a ba­sic test, ask­ing all ap­pli­cants for the team to di­vide in­to groups of ten and fly once around the pitch. This was a good de­ci­sion: the first ten was made up of first years, and it could not have been plain­er that they had hard­ly ev­er flown be­fore. On­ly one boy man­aged to re­main air­borne for more than a few sec­onds, and he was so sur­prised he prompt­ly crashed in­to one of the goal posts.

The sec­ond group was com­prised of ten of the sil­li­est girls Har­ry had ev­er en­coun­tered, who, when he blew his whis­tle, mere­ly fell about gig­gling and clutch­ing one an­oth­er. Romil­da Vane was amongst them. When he told them to leave the pitch, they did so quite cheer­ful­ly and went to sit in the stands to heck­le ev­ery­one else.

The third group had a pile­up halfway around the pitch. Most of the fourth group had come with­out broom­sticks. The fifth group were Huf­flepuffs.

“If there’s any­one else here who’s not from Gryffind­or,” roared Har­ry, who was start­ing to get se­ri­ous­ly an­noyed, “leave now, please!

There was a pause, then a cou­ple of lit­tle Raven­claws went sprint­ing off the pitch, snort­ing with laugh­ter.

Af­ter two hours, many com­plaints, and sev­er­al tantrums, one in­volv­ing a crashed Comet Two Six­ty and sev­er­al bro­ken teeth, Har­ry had found him­self three Chasers: Katie Bell, re­turned to the team af­ter an ex­cel­lent tri­al; a new find called Demelza Robins, who was par­tic­ular­ly good at dodg­ing Bludgers; and Gin­ny Weasley, who had out­flown all the com­pe­ti­tion and scored sev­en­teen goals to boot. Pleased though he was with his choic­es, Har­ry had al­so shout­ed him­self hoarse at the many com­plain­ers and was now en­dur­ing a sim­ilar bat­tle with the re­ject­ed Beat­ers.

“That’s my fi­nal de­ci­sion and if you don’t get out of the way of the Keep­ers I’ll hex you,” he bel­lowed.

Nei­ther of his cho­sen Beat­ers had the old bril­liance of Fred and George, but he was still rea­son­ably pleased with them: Jim­my Peakes, a short but broad­ch­est­ed thirdyear boy who had man­aged to raise a lump the size of an egg on the back of Har­ry’s head with a fe­ro­cious­ly hit Bludger, and Ritchie Coote, who looked weedy but aimed well. They now joined Katie, Demelza, and Gin­ny in the stands to watch the se­lec­tion of their last team mem­ber.

Har­ry had de­lib­er­ate­ly left the tri­al of the Keep­ers un­til last, hop­ing for an emp­ti­er sta­di­um and less pres­sure on all con­cerned. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, all the re­ject­ed play­ers and a num­ber of peo­ple who had come down to watch af­ter a lengthy break­fast had joined the crowd by now, so that it was larg­er than ev­er. As each Keep­er flew up to the goal hoops, the crowd roared and jeered in equal mea­sure. Har­ry glanced over at Ron, who had al­ways had a prob­lem with nerves; Har­ry had hoped that win­ning their fi­nal match last term might have cured it, but ap­par­ent­ly not: Ron was a del­icate shade of green.

None of the first five ap­pli­cants saved more than two goals apiece. To Har­ry’s great dis­ap­point­ment, Cor­mac McLaggen saved four pe­nal­ties out of five. On the last one, how­ev­er, he shot off in com­plete­ly the wrong di­rec­tion; the crowd laughed and booed and McLaggen re­turned to the ground grind­ing his teeth.

Ron looked ready to pass out as he mount­ed his Clean­sweep Eleven. “Good luck!” cried a voice from the stands. Har­ry looked around, ex­pect­ing to see Hermione, but it was Laven­der Brown. He would have quite liked to have hid­den his face in his hands, as she did a mo­ment lat­er, but thought that as the Cap­tain he ought to show slight­ly more grit, and so turned to watch Ron do his tri­al.

Yet he need not have wor­ried: Ron saved one, two, three, four, five pe­nal­ties in a row. De­light­ed, and re­sist­ing join­ing in the cheers of the crowd with dif­fi­cul­ty, Har­ry turned to McLaggen to tell him that, most un­for­tu­nate­ly, Ron had beat­en him, on­ly to find McLaggen’s red face inch­es from his own. He stepped back hasti­ly.

“His sis­ter didn’t re­al­ly try,” said McLaggen men­ac­ing­ly. There was a vein puls­ing in his tem­ple like the one Har­ry had of­ten ad­mired in Un­cle Ver­non’s. “She gave him an easy save.”

“Rub­bish,” said Har­ry cold­ly. “That was the one he near­ly missed.”

McLaggen took a step near­er Har­ry, who stood his ground this time.

“Give me an­oth­er go.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “You’ve had your go. You saved four. Ron saved five. Ron’s Keep­er, he won it fair and square. Get out of my way.”

He thought for a mo­ment that McLaggen might punch him, but he con­tent­ed him­self with an ug­ly gri­mace and stormed away, growl­ing what sound­ed like threats to thin air.

Har­ry turned around to find his new team beam­ing at him.

“Well done,” he croaked. “You flew re­al­ly well —”

“You did bril­liant­ly, Ron!”

This time it re­al­ly was Hermione run­ning to­ward them from the stands; Har­ry saw Laven­der walk­ing off the pitch, arm in arm with Par­vati, a rather grumpy ex­pres­sion on her face. Ron looked ex­treme­ly pleased with him­self and even taller than usu­al as he grinned at the team and at Hermione.

Af­ter fix­ing the time of their first full prac­tice for the fol­low­ing Thurs­day, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione bade good­bye to the rest of the team and head­ed off to­ward Ha­grid’s. A wa­tery sun was try­ing to break through the clouds now and it had stopped driz­zling at last. Har­ry felt ex­treme­ly hun­gry; he hoped there would be some­thing to eat at Ha­grid’s.

“I thought I was go­ing to miss that fourth pe­nal­ty,” Ron was say­ing hap­pi­ly. “Tricky shot from Demelza, did you see, had a bit of spin on it —”

“Yes, yes, you were mag­nif­icent,” said Hermione, look­ing amused.

“I was bet­ter than that McLaggen any­way,” said Ron in a high­ly sat­is­fied voice. “Did you see him lum­ber­ing off in the wrong di­rec­tion on his fifth? Looked like he’d been Con­fund­ed. …”

To Har­ry’s sur­prise, Hermione turned a very deep shade of pink at these words. Ron no­ticed noth­ing; he was too busy de­scrib­ing each of his oth­er pe­nal­ties in lov­ing de­tail.

The great gray hip­pogriff, Buck­beak, was teth­ered in front of Ha­grid’s cab­in. He clicked his ra­zor­sharp beak at their ap­proach and turned his huge head to­ward them.

“Oh dear,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly. “He’s still a bit scary, isn’t he?”

“Come off it, you’ve rid­den him, haven’t you?” said Ron. Har­ry stepped for­ward and bowed low to the hip­pogriff with­out break­ing eye con­tact or blink­ing. Af­ter a few sec­onds, Buck­beak sank in­to a bow too.

“How are you?” Har­ry asked him in a low voice, mov­ing for­ward to stroke the feath­ery head. “Miss­ing him? But you’re okay here with Ha­grid, aren’t you?”

“Oi!” said a loud voice.

Ha­grid had come strid­ing around the cor­ner of his cab­in wear­ing a large flow­ery apron and car­ry­ing a sack of pota­toes. His enor­mous boarhound, Fang, was at his heels; Fang gave a boom­ing bark and bound­ed for­ward.

“Git away from him! He’ll have yer fin­gers — oh. It’s yeh lot.”

Fang was jump­ing up at Hermione and Ron, at­tempt­ing to lick their ears. Ha­grid stood and looked at them all for a split sec­ond, then turned and strode in­to his cab­in, slam­ming the door be­hind him.

“Oh dear!” said Hermione, look­ing strick­en.

“Don’t wor­ry about it,” said Har­ry grim­ly. He walked over to the door and knocked loud­ly. “Ha­grid! Open up, we want to talk to you!”

There was no sound from with­in.

“If you don’t open the door, we’ll blast it open!” Har­ry said, pulling out his wand.

“Har­ry!” said Hermione, sound­ing shocked. “You can’t pos­si­bly —”

“Yeah, I can!” said Har­ry. “Stand back —”

But be­fore he could say any­thing else, the door flew open again as Har­ry had known it would, and there stood Ha­grid, glow­er­ing down at him and look­ing, de­spite the flow­ery apron, pos­itive­ly alarm­ing.

“I’m a teach­er!” he roared at Har­ry. “A teach­er, Pot­ter! How dare yeh threat­en ter break down my door!”

“I’m sor­ry, sir” said Har­ry, em­pha­siz­ing the last word as he stowed his wand in­side his robes.

Ha­grid looked stunned. “Since when have yeh called me ’sir’?”

“Since when have you called me ‘Pot­ter’?”

“Oh, very clever,” growled Ha­grid. “Very amusin’. That’s me out­smart­ed, in­nit? All righ’, come in then, yeh un­grate­ful lit­tle . . .”

Mum­bling dark­ly, he stood back to let them pass. Hermione scur­ried in af­ter Har­ry, look­ing rather fright­ened.

“Well?” said Ha­grid grumpi­ly, as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sat down around his enor­mous wood­en ta­ble, Fang lay­ing his head im­me­di­ate­ly up­on Har­ry’s knee and drool­ing all over his robes. “What’s this? Feel­in’ sor­ry for me? Reck­on I’m lone­ly or sum­mat?”

“No,” said Har­ry at once. “We want­ed to see you.”

“We’ve missed you!” said Hermione tremu­lous­ly.

“Missed me, have yeh?” snort­ed Ha­grid. “Yeah. Righ’.”

He stomped around, brew­ing up tea in his enor­mous cop­per ket­tle, mut­ter­ing all the while. Fi­nal­ly he slammed down three buck­et­sized mugs of ma­hogany­brown tea in front of them and a plate of his rock cakes. Har­ry was hun­gry enough even for Ha­grid’s cook­ing, and took one at once.

“Ha­grid,” said Hermione timid­ly, when he joined them at the ta­ble and start­ed peel­ing his pota­toes with a bru­tal­ity that sug­gest­ed that each tu­ber had done him a great per­son­al wrong, “we re­al­ly want­ed to car­ry on with Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, you know.” Ha­grid gave an­oth­er great snort. Har­ry rather thought some bo­geys land­ed on the pota­toes, and was in­ward­ly thank­ful that they were not stay­ing for din­ner.

“We did!” said Hermione. “But none of us could fit it in­to our sched­ules!”

“Yeah. Righ’,” said Ha­grid again.

There was a fun­ny squelch­ing sound and they all looked around: Hermione let out a tiny shriek, and Ron leapt out of his seat and hur­ried around the ta­ble away from the large bar­rel stand­ing in the cor­ner that they had on­ly just no­ticed. It was full of what looked like foot­long mag­gots, slimy, white, and writhing.

“What are they, Ha­grid?” asked Har­ry, try­ing to sound in­ter­est­ed rather than re­volt­ed, but putting down his rock cake all the same.

“Jus’ gi­ant grubs,” said Ha­grid.

“And they grow in­to … ?” said Ron, look­ing ap­pre­hen­sive.

“They won’ grow in­ter nuthin’,” said Ha­grid. “I got ‘em ter feed ter Ar­agog.”

And with­out warn­ing, he burst in­to tears.

“Ha­grid!” cried Hermione, leap­ing up, hur­ry­ing around the ta­ble the long way to avoid the bar­rel of mag­gots, and putting an arm around his shak­ing shoul­ders. “What is it?”

“It’s. . . him . ..” gulped Ha­grid, his bee­tle­black eyes stream­ing as he mopped his face with his apron. “It’s . . . Ar­agog. … I think he’s dyin’. . , . He got ill over the sum­mer an’ he’s not get­tin’ bet­ter…. I don’ know what I’ll do if he … if he … We’ve bin ter­geth­er so long. …”

Hermione pat­ted Ha­grid’s shoul­der, look­ing at a com­plete loss for any­thing to say. Har­ry knew how she felt. He had known Ha­grid to present a vi­cious ba­by drag­on with a ted­dy bear, seen him croon over gi­ant scor­pi­ons with suck­ers and stingers, at­tempt to rea­son with his bru­tal gi­ant of a half­broth­er, but this was per­haps the most in­com­pre­hen­si­ble of all his mon­ster fan­cies: the gi­gan­tic talk­ing spi­der, Ar­agog, who dwelled deep in the For­bid­den For­est and which he and Ron had on­ly nar­row­ly es­caped four years pre­vi­ous­ly.

“Is there — is there any­thing we can do?” Hermione asked, ig­nor­ing Ron’s fran­tic gri­maces and head­shak­in­gs.

“I don’ think there is, Hermione,” choked Ha­grid, at­tempt­ing to stem the flood of his tears. “See, the rest o’ the tribe … Ar­agog’s fam­ily . . . they’re get­tin’ a bit fun­ny now he’s ill… bit restive …”

“Yeah, I think we saw a bit of that side of them,” said Ron in an un­der­tone.

“… I don’ reck­on it’d be safe fer any­one but me ter go near the colony at the mo’,” Ha­grid fin­ished, blow­ing his nose hard on his apron and look­ing up. “But thanks fer of­ferin’, Hermione. … It means a lot.”

Af­ter that, the at­mo­sphere light­ened con­sid­er­ably, for al­though nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron had shown any in­cli­na­tion to go and feed gi­ant grubs to a mur­der­ous, gar­gan­tu­an spi­der, Ha­grid seemed to take it for grant­ed that they would have liked to have done and be­came his usu­al self once more.

“Ar, I al­ways knew yeh’d find it hard ter squeeze me in­ter yer timeta­bles,” he said gruffly, pour­ing them more tea. “Even if yeh ap­plied fer Time­Turn­ers —”

“We couldn’t have done,” said Hermione. “We smashed the en­tire stock of Min­istry Time­Turn­ers when we were there last sum­mer. It was in the Dai­ly Prophet.”

“Ar, well then,” said Ha­grid. “There’s no way yeh could’ve done it. … I’m sor­ry I’ve bin — yeh know — I’ve jus’ bin wor­ried about Ar­agog … an I did won­der whether, if Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly­Plank had bin teachin’ yeh —”

At which all three of them stat­ed cat­egor­ical­ly and un­truth­ful­ly that Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly­Plank, who had sub­sti­tut­ed for Ha­grid a few times, was a dread­ful teach­er, with the re­sult that by the time Ha­grid waved them off the premis­es at dusk, he looked quite cheer­ful.

“I’m starv­ing,” said Har­ry, once the door had closed be­hind them and they were hur­ry­ing through the dark and de­sert­ed grounds; he had aban­doned the rock cake af­ter an omi­nous crack­ing noise from one of his back teeth. “And I’ve got that de­ten­tion with Snape tonight, I haven’t got much time for din­ner.”

As they came in­to the cas­tle they spot­ted Cor­mac McLaggen en­ter­ing the Great Hall. It took him two at­tempts to get through the doors; he ric­ocheted off the frame on the first at­tempt. Ron mere­ly guf­fawed gloat­ing­ly and strode off in­to the Hall af­ter him, but Har­ry caught Hermione’s arm and held her back.

“What?” said Hermione de­fen­sive­ly.

“If you ask me,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly, “McLaggen looks like he was Con­fund­ed this morn­ing. And he was stand­ing right in front of where you were sit­ting.”

Hermione blushed.

“Oh, all right then, I did it,” she whis­pered. “But you should have heard the way he was talk­ing about Ron and Gin­ny! Any­way, he’s got a nasty tem­per, you saw how he re­act­ed when he didn’t get in — you wouldn’t have want­ed some­one like that on the team.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “No, I sup­pose that’s true. But wasn’t that dis­hon­est, Hermione? I mean, you’re a pre­fect, aren’t you?”

“Oh, be qui­et,” she snapped, as he smirked.

“What are you two do­ing?” de­mand­ed Ron, reap­pear­ing in the door­way to the Great Hall and look­ing sus­pi­cious.

“Noth­ing,” said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er, and they hur­ried af­ter Ron. The smell of roast beef made Har­ry’s stom­ach ache with hunger, but they had bare­ly tak­en three steps to­ward the Gryffind­or ta­ble when Pro­fes­sor Slughorn ap­peared in front of them, block­ing their path.

“Har­ry, Har­ry, just the man I was hop­ing to see!” he boomed ge­nial­ly, twid­dling the ends of his wal­rus mus­tache and puff­ing out his enor­mous bel­ly, “I was hop­ing to catch you be­fore din­ner! What do you say to a spot of sup­per tonight in my rooms in­stead? We’re hav­ing a lit­tle par­ty, just a few ris­ing stars, I’ve got McLaggen com­ing and Zabi­ni, the charm­ing Melin­da Bob­bin — I don’t know whether you know her? Her fam­ily owns a large chain of apothe­caries — and, of course, I hope very much that Miss Granger will fa­vor me by com­ing too.”

Slughorn made Hermione a lit­tle bow as he fin­ished speak­ing. It was as though Ron was not present; Slughorn did not so much as look at him.

“I can’t come, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry at once. “I’ve got a de­ten­tion with Pro­fes­sor Snape.”

“Oh dear!” said Slughorn, his face falling com­ical­ly. “Dear, dear, I was count­ing on you, Har­ry! Well, now, I’ll just have to have a word with Severus and ex­plain the sit­ua­tion. I’m sure I’ll be able to per­suade him to post­pone your de­ten­tion. Yes, I’ll see you both lat­er!” He bus­tled away out of the Hall.

“He’s got no chance of per­suad­ing Snape,” said Har­ry, the mo­ment Slughorn was out of earshot. “This de­ten­tion’s al­ready been post­poned once; Snape did it for Dum­ble­dore, but he won’t do it for any­one else.”

“Oh, I wish you could come, I don’t want to go on my own!” said Hermione anx­ious­ly; Har­ry knew that she was think­ing about McLaggen.

“I doubt you’ll be alone, Gin­ny’ll prob­ably be in­vit­ed,” snapped Ron, who did not seem to have tak­en kind­ly to be­ing ig­nored by Slughorn.

Af­ter din­ner they made their way back to Gryffind­or Tow­er. The com­mon room was very crowd­ed, as most peo­ple had fin­ished din­ner by now, but they man­aged to find a free ta­ble and sat down; Ron, who had been in a bad mood ev­er since the en­counter with Slughorn, fold­ed his arms and frowned at the ceil­ing. Hermione reached out for a copy of the Evening Prophet, which some­body had left aban­doned on a chair.

“Any­thing new?” said Har­ry.

“Not re­al­ly. . .” Hermione had opened the news­pa­per and was scan­ning the in­side pages. “Oh, look, your dad’s in here, Ron — he’s all right!” she added quick­ly, for Ron had looked around in alarm. “It just says he’s been to vis­it the Mal­foys’ house. ‘This sec­ond search of the Death Eaters res­idence does not seem to have yield­ed any re­sults. Arthur Weasley of the Of­fice for the De­tec­tion and Con­fis­ca­tion of Coun­ter­feit De­fen­sive Spells and Pro­tec­tive Ob­jects said that his team had been act­ing up­on a con­fi­den­tial tipoff.’”

“Yeah, mine!” said Har­ry. “I told him at Kings Cross about Mal­foy and that thing he was try­ing to get Bor­gin to fix! Well, if it’s not at their house, he must have brought what­ev­er it is to Hog­warts with him —”

“But how can he have done, Har­ry?” said Hermione, putting down the news­pa­per with a sur­prised look. “We were all searched when we ar­rived, weren’t we?”

“Were you?” said Har­ry, tak­en aback. “I wasn’t!”

“Oh no, of course you weren’t, I for­got you were late. Well, Filch ran over all of us with Se­cre­cy Sen­sors when we got in­to the en­trance hall. Any Dark ob­ject would have been found, I know for a fact Crabbe had a shrunk­en head con­fis­cat­ed. So you see, Mal­foy can’t have brought in any­thing dan­ger­ous!”

Mo­men­tar­ily stymied, Har­ry watched Gin­ny Weasley play­ing with Arnold the Pygmy Puff for a while be­fore see­ing a way around this ob­jec­tion.

“Some­one’s sent it to him by owl, then,” he said. “His moth­er or some­one.”

“All the owls are be­ing checked too,” said Hermione. “Filch told us so when he was jab­bing those Se­cre­cy Sen­sors ev­ery­where he could reach.”

Re­al­ly stumped this time, Har­ry found noth­ing else to say. There did not seem to be any way Mal­foy could have brought a dan­ger­ous or Dark ob­ject in­to the school. He looked hope­ful­ly at Ron, who was sit­ting with his arms fold­ed, star­ing over at Laven­der Brown.

“Can you think of any way Mal­foy — ?”

“Oh, drop it, Har­ry,” said Ron.

“Lis­ten, it’s not my fault Slughorn in­vit­ed Hermione and me to his stupid par­ty, nei­ther of us want­ed to go, you know!” said Har­ry, fir­ing up.

“Well, as I’m not in­vit­ed to any par­ties,” said Ron, get­ting to his feet again, “I think I’ll go to bed.”

He stomped off to­ward the door to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries, leav­ing Har­ry and Hermione star­ing af­ter him.

“Har­ry?” said the new Chas­er, Demelza Robins, ap­pear­ing sud­den­ly at his shoul­der. “I’ve got a mes­sage for you.”

“From Pro­fes­sor Slughorn?” asked Har­ry, sit­ting up hope­ful­ly.

“No … from Pro­fes­sor Snape,” said Demelza. Har­ry’s heart sank. “He says you’re to come to his of­fice at half past eight tonight to do your de­ten­tion — er — no mat­ter how many par­ty in­vi­ta­tions you’ve re­ceived. And he want­ed you to know you’ll be sort­ing out rot­ten flob­ber­worms from good ones, to use in Po­tions and — and he says there’s no need to bring pro­tec­tive gloves.”

“Right,” said Har­ry grim­ly. “Thanks a lot, Demelza.”





