Chapter 12: Silver and opals


Where was Dum­ble­dore, and what was he do­ing?

Har­ry caught sight of the head­mas­ter on­ly twice over the next few weeks. He rarely ap­peared at meals any­more, and Har­ry was sure Hermione was right in think­ing that he was leav­ing the school for days at a time. Had Dum­ble­dore for­got­ten the lessons he was sup­posed to be giv­ing Har­ry? Dum­ble­dore had said that the lessons were lead­ing to some­thing to do with the prophe­cy; Har­ry had felt bol­stered, com­fort­ed, and now he felt slight­ly aban­doned.

Halfway through Oc­to­ber came their first trip of the term to Hogsmeade. Har­ry had won­dered whether these trips would still be al­lowed, giv­en the in­creas­ing­ly tight se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures around the school, but was pleased to know that they were go­ing ahead; it was al­ways good to get out of the cas­tle grounds for a few hours.

Har­ry woke ear­ly on the morn­ing of the trip, which was prov­ing stormy, and whiled away the time un­til break­fast by read­ing his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. He did not usu­al­ly lie in bed read­ing his text­books; that sort of be­hav­ior, as Ron right­ly said, was in­de­cent in any­body ex­cept Hermione, who was sim­ply weird that way. Har­ry felt, how­ev­er, that the Half­Blood Princes copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing hard­ly qual­ified as a text­book. The more Har­ry pored over the book, the more he re­al­ized how much was in there, not on­ly the handy hints and short­cuts on po­tions that was earn­ing him such a glow­ing rep­uta­tion with Slughorn, but al­so the imag­ina­tive lit­tle jinx­es and hex­es scrib­bled in the mar­gins, which Har­ry was sure, judg­ing by the cross­in­gsout and re­vi­sions, that the Prince had in­vent­ed him­self.

Har­ry had al­ready at­tempt­ed a few of the Prince’s self­in­vent­ed spells. There had been a hex that caused toe­nails to grow alarm­ing­ly fast (he had tried this on Crabbe in the cor­ri­dor, with very en­ter­tain­ing re­sults); a jinx that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth (which he had twice used, to gen­er­al ap­plause, on an un­sus­pect­ing Ar­gus Filch); and, per­haps most use­ful of all, Muf­flia­to, a spell that filled the ears of any­one near­by with an uniden­ti­fi­able buzzing, so that lengthy con­ver­sa­tions could be held in class with out be­ing over­heard. The on­ly per­son who did not find these charms amus­ing was Hermione, who main­tained a rigid­ly dis­ap­prov­ing ex­pres­sion through­out and re­fused to talk at all if Har­ry had used the Muf­flia­to spell on any­one in the vicin­ity.

Sit­ting up in bed, Har­ry turned the book side­ways so as to ex­am­ine more close­ly the scrib­bled in­struc­tions for a spell that seemed to have caused the Prince some trou­ble. There were many cross­in­gsout and al­ter­ations, but fi­nal­ly, crammed in­to a cor­ner of the page, the scrib­ble:

Lev­icor­pus (nvbl)

While the wind and sleet pound­ed re­lent­less­ly on the win­dows, and Neville snored loud­ly, Har­ry stared at the let­ters in brack­ets. Nvbl . . that had to mean “non­ver­bal.” Har­ry rather doubt­ed he would be able to bring off this par­tic­ular spell; he was still hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty with non­ver­bal spells, some­thing Snape had been quick to com­ment on in ev­ery D.A.D.A. class. On the oth­er hand, the Prince had proved a much more ef­fec­tive teach­er than Snape so far.

Point­ing his wand at noth­ing in par­tic­ular, he gave it an up­ward flick and said Lev­icor­pus! in­side his head. “Aaaaaaaargh!”

There was a flash of light and the room was full of voic­es: Ev­ery­one had wo­ken up as Ron had let out a yell. Har­ry sent Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing fly­ing in pan­ic; Ron was dan­gling up­side down in midair as though an in­vis­ible hook had hoist­ed him up by the an­kle.

“Sor­ry!” yelled Har­ry, as Dean and Sea­mus roared with laugh­ter, and Neville picked him­self up from the floor, hav­ing fall­en out of Bed. “Hang on — I’ll let you down —”

He groped for the po­tion book and rif­fled through it in a pan­ic, try­ing to find the right page; at last he lo­cat­ed it and de­ci­phered the cramped word un­der­neath the spell: Pray­ing that this was the coun­ter­jinx, Har­ry thought Lib­er­acor­pus! with all his might. There was an­oth­er flash of light, and Ron fell in a heap on­to his mat­tress.

“Sor­ry,” re­peat­ed Har­ry weak­ly, while Dean and Sea­mus con­tin­ued to roar with laugh­ter.

“To­mor­row,” said Ron in a muf­fled voice, “I’d rather you set the alarm clock.”

By the time they had got dressed, padding them­selves out with sev­er­al of Mrs. Weasleys hand­knit­ted sweaters and car­ry­ing cloaks, scarves, and gloves, Ron’s shock had sub­sid­ed and he had de­cid­ed that Har­ry’s new spell was high­ly amus­ing; so amus­ing, in fact, that he lost no time in re­gal­ing Hermione with the sto­ry as they sat down for break­fast.

“… and then there was an­oth­er flash, of light and I land­ed on the bed again!” Ron grinned, help­ing him­self to sausages.

Hermione had not cracked a smile dur­ing this anec­dote, and now turned an ex­pres­sion of win­try dis­ap­proval up­on Har­ry.

“Was this spell, by any chance, an­oth­er one from that po­tion book of yours?” she asked.

Har­ry frowned at her.

“Al­ways jump to the worst con­clu­sion, don’t you?”

“Was it?”

“Well. . . yeah, it was, but so what?”

“So you just de­cid­ed to try out an un­known, hand­writ­ten in­can­ta­tion and see what would hap­pen?”

“Why does it mat­ter if it’s hand­writ­ten?” said Har­ry, pre­fer­ring not to an­swer the rest of the ques­tion.

“Be­cause it’s prob­ably not Min­istry of Mag­ic ap­proved,” said Hermione. “And al­so,” she added, as Har­ry and Ron rolled their eyes, “be­cause I’m start­ing to think this Prince char­ac­ter was a bit dodgy.”

Both Har­ry and Ron shout­ed her down at once.

“It was a laugh!” said Ron, up­end­ing a ketchup bot­tle over his sausages. “Just a laugh, Hermione, that’s all!”

“Dan­gling peo­ple up­side down by the an­kle?” said Her­mi­one. “Who puts their time and en­er­gy in­to mak­ing up spells like that?”

“Fred and George,” said Ron, shrug­ging, “it’s their kind of thing. And, er—”

“My dad,” said Har­ry. He had on­ly just re­mem­bered.

“What?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er.

“My dad used this spell,” said Har­ry. “I — Lupin told me.”

‘This last part was not true; in fact, Har­ry had seen his fa­ther use the spell on Snape, but he had nev­er told Ron and Hermione about that par­tic­ular ex­cur­sion in­to the Pen­sieve. Now, how­ev­er, a won­der­ful pos­si­bil­ity oc­curred to him. Could the Half­Blood Prince pos­si­bly be — ?

“Maybe your dad did use it, Har­ry,” said Hermione, “but he’s not the on­ly one. We’ve seen a whole bunch of peo­ple use it, in case you’ve for­got­ten. Dan­gling peo­ple in the air. Mak­ing them float along, asleep, help­less.”

Har­ry stared at her. With a sink­ing feel­ing, he too re­mem­bered the be­hav­ior of the Death Eaters at the Quid­ditch World Cup. Ron came to his aid.

“That was dif­fer­ent,” he said ro­bust­ly. “They were abus­ing it. Har­ry and his dad were just hav­ing a laugh. You don’t like the Prince, Hermione,” he added, point­ing a sausage at her stern­ly, “be­cause he’s bet­ter than you at Po­tions —”

“It’s got noth­ing to do with that!” said Hermione, her cheeks red­den­ing. “I just think it’s very ir­re­spon­si­ble to start per­form­ing spells when you don’t even know what they’re for, and stop talk­ing about ‘the Prince’ as if it’s his ti­tle, I bet it’s just a stupid nick­name, and it doesn’t seem as though he was a very nice per­son to me!”

“I don’t see where you get that from,” said Har­ry heat­ed­ly. “If he’d been a bud­ding Death Eater he wouldn’t have been boast­ing about be­ing ‘half­blood,’ would he?”

Even as he said it, Har­ry re­mem­bered that his fa­ther had been pure­blood, but he pushed the thought out of his mind; he would wor­ry about that lat­er.

“The Death Eaters can’t all be pure­blood, there aren’t enough pure­blood wiz­ards left,” said Hermione stub­born­ly. “I ex­pect most of them are half­bloods pre­tend­ing to be pure. It’s on­ly Mug­gle­borns they hate, they’d be quite hap­py to let you and Ron join up.”

“There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said Ron in­dig­nant­ly, a bit of sausage fly­ing off the fork he was now bran­dish­ing at Hermione and hit­ting Ernie Macmil­lan on the head. “My whole fam­ily are blood traitors! That’s as bad as Mug­gle­borns to Death Eaters!”

“And they’d love to have me,” said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep try­ing to do me in.”

This made Ron laugh; even Hermione gave a grudg­ing smile, and a dis­trac­tion ar­rived in the shape of Gin­ny.

“Hey, Har­ry, I’m sup­posed to give you this.”

It was a scroll of parch­ment with Har­ry’s name writ­ten up­on it in fa­mil­iar thin, slant­ing writ­ing.

“Thanks, Gin­ny. . . It’s Dum­ble­dore’s next les­son!” Har­ry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the parch­ment and quick­ly read­ing its con­tents. “Mon­day evening!” He felt sud­den­ly light and hap­py. “Want to join us in Hogsmeade, Gin­ny?” he asked.

“I’m go­ing with Dean — might see you there,” she replied, wav­ing at them as she left.

Filch was stand­ing at the oak front doors as usu­al, check­ing off the names of peo­ple who had per­mis­sion to go in­to Hogsmeade. The pro­cess took even longer than nor­mal as Filch was triplecheck­ing ev­ery­body with his Se­cre­cy Sen­sor.

“What does it mat­ter if we’re smug­gling Dark stuff OUT?” de­mand­ed Ron, eye­ing the long thin Se­cre­cy Sen­sor with ap­pre­hen­sion. “Sure­ly you ought to be check­ing what we bring back IN?”

His cheek earned him a few ex­tra jabs with the Sen­sor, and he was still winc­ing as they stepped out in­to the wind and sleet.

The walk in­to Hogsmeade was not en­joy­able. Har­ry wrapped his scarf over his low­er face; the ex­posed part soon felt both raw and numb. The road to the vil­lage was full of stu­dents bent dou­ble against the bit­ter wind. More than once Har­ry won­dered whether they might not have had a bet­ter time in the warm com­mon room, and when they fi­nal­ly reached Hogsmeade and saw that Zonko’s Joke Shop had been board­ed up, Har­ry took it as con­fir­ma­tion that this trip was not des­tined to be fun. Ron point­ed, with a thick­ly gloved hand, to­ward Hon­ey­dukes, which was mer­ci­ful­ly open, and Har­ry and Hermione stag­gered in his wake in­to the crowd­ed shop.

“Thank God,” shiv­ered Ron as they were en­veloped by warm, tof­feescent­ed air. “Let’s stay here all af­ter­noon.”

“Har­ry, m’boy!” said a boom­ing voice from be­hind them.

“Oh no,” mut­tered Har­ry. The three of them turned to see Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, who was wear­ing an enor­mous fur­ry hat and an over­coat with match­ing fur col­lar, clutch­ing a large bag of crys­tal­ized pineap­ple, and oc­cu­py­ing at least a quar­ter of the shop.

“Har­ry, that’s three of my lit­tle sup­pers you’ve missed now!” said Slughorn, pok­ing him ge­nial­ly in the chest. “It won’t do, m’boy, I’m de­ter­mined to have you! Miss Granger loves them, don’t you?”

“Yes,” said Hermione help­less­ly, “they’re re­al­ly —”

“So why don’t you come along, Har­ry?” de­mand­ed Slughorn.

“Well, I’ve had Quid­ditch prac­tice, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, who had in­deed been schedul­ing prac­tices ev­ery time Slughorn had sent him a lit­tle, vi­olet rib­bonadorned in­vi­ta­tion. This strat­egy meant that Ron was not left out, and they usu­al­ly had a laugh with Gin­ny, imag­in­ing Hermione shut up with McLaggen and Zabi­ni.

“Well, I cer­tain­ly ex­pect you to win your first match af­ter all the hard work!” said Slughorn. “But a lit­tle recre­ation nev­er hurt any body. Now, how about Mon­day night, you can’t pos­si­bly want to prac­tice in this weath­er….”

“I can’t, Pro­fes­sor, I’ve got — er — an ap­point­ment with Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore that evening.”

“Un­lucky again!” cried Slughorn dra­mat­ical­ly. “Ah, well . . . you can’t evade me for­ev­er, Har­ry!”

And with a re­gal wave, he wad­dled out of the shop, tak­ing as lit­tle no­tice of Ron as though he had been a dis­play of Cock­roach Clus­ters.

“I can’t be­lieve you’ve wrig­gled out of an­oth­er one,” said Hermione, shak­ing her head. “They’re not that bad, you know. . . They’re even quite fun some­times. . . .” But then she caught sight of Ron’s ex­pres­sion. “Oh, look — they’ve got deluxe sug­ar quills — those would last hours!”

Glad that Hermione had changed the sub­ject, Har­ry showed much more in­ter­est in the new ex­tralarge sug­ar quills than he would nor­mal­ly have done, but Ron con­tin­ued to look moody and mere­ly shrugged when Hermione asked him where he want­ed to go next.

“Let’s go to the Three Broom­sticks,” said Har­ry. “It’ll be warm.”

They bun­dled their scarves back over their faces and left the sweet­shop. The bit­ter wind was like knives on their faces af­ter the sug­ary warmth of Hon­ey­dukes. The street was not very busy; no­body was lin­ger­ing to chat, just hur­ry­ing to­ward their des­ti­na­tions. The ex­cep­tions were two men a lit­tle ahead of them, stand­ing just out­side the Three Broom­sticks. One was very tall and thin; squint­ing through his rain­washed glass­es Har­ry rec­og­nized the bar­man who worked in the oth­er Hogsmeade pub, the Hog’s Head. As Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione drew clos­er, the bar­man drew his cloak more tight­ly around his neck and walked away, leav­ing the short­er man to fum­ble with some­thing in his arms. They were bare­ly feet from him when Har­ry re­al­ized who the man was.

“Mundun­gus!”

The squat, bandy­legged man with long, strag­gly, gin­ger hair jumped and dropped an an­cient suit­case, which burst open, re­leas­ing what looked like the en­tire con­tents of a junk shop win­dow.

“Oh, ‘el­lo, ‘Ar­ry,” said Mundun­gus Fletch­er, with a most un­con­vinc­ing stab at airi­ness. “Well, don’t let me keep ya.”

And he be­gan scrab­bling on the ground to re­trieve the con­tents of his suit­case with ev­ery ap­pear­an­ce of a man ea­ger to be gone.

“Are you sell­ing this stuff?” asked Har­ry, watch­ing Mundun­gus grab an as­sort­ment of grub­by­look­ing ob­jects from the ground.

“Oh, well, got­ta scrape a liv­ing,” said Mundun­gus. “Gimme that!”

Ron had stooped down and picked up some­thing sil­ver.

“Hang on,” Ron said slow­ly. “This looks fa­mil­iar —”

“Thank you!” said Mundun­gus, snatch­ing the gob­let out of Ron’s hand and stuff­ing it back in­to the case. “Well, I’ll see you all _ OUCH!”

Har­ry had pinned Mundun­gus against the wall of the pub by the throat. Hold­ing him fast with one hand, he pulled out his wand.

“Har­ry!” squealed Hermione.

“You took that from Si­nus’s house,” said Har­ry, who was al­most nose to nose with Mundun­gus and was breath­ing in an un­pleas­ant smell of old to­bac­co and spir­its. “That had the Black fam­ily crest on it.”

“I — no — what — ?” splut­tered Mundun­gus, who was slow­ly turn­ing pur­ple.

“What did you do, go back the night he died and strip the place?” snarled Har­ry.

“I — no — “

“Give it to me!”

“Har­ry, you mustn’t!” shrieked Hermione, as Mundun­gus start­ed to turn blue.

There was a bang, and Har­ry felt his hands fly off Mundun­gus’s throat. Gasp­ing and splut­ter­ing, Mundun­gus seized his fall­en case, then — CRACK— he Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

Har­ry swore at the top of his voice, spin­ning on the spot to see where Mundun­gus had gone.

“COME BACK, YOU THIEV­ING — !”

“There’s no point, Har­ry.” Tonks had ap­peared out of nowhere, her mousy hair wet with sleet.

“Mundun­gus will prob­ably be in Lon­don by now. There’s no point yelling.”

“He’s nicked Sir­ius’s stuff! Nicked it!”

“Yes, but still,” said Tonks, who seemed per­fect­ly un­trou­bled by this piece of in­for­ma­tion. “You should get out of the cold.”

She watched them go through the door of the Three Broom­sticks. The mo­ment he was in­side, Har­ry burst out, “He was nick­ing Sir­ius’s stuff!”

“I know, Har­ry, but please don’t shout, peo­ple are star­ing,” whis­pered Hermione. “Go and sit down, I’ll get you a drink.”

Har­ry was still fum­ing when Hermione re­turned to their ta­ble a few min­utes lat­er hold­ing three bot­tles of but­ter­beer.

“Can’t the Or­der con­trol Mundun­gus?” Har­ry de­mand­ed of the oth­er two in a fu­ri­ous whis­per. “Can’t they at least stop him steal­ing ev­ery­thing that’s not fixed down when he’s at head­quar­ters?”

“Shh!” said Hermione des­per­ate­ly, look­ing around to make sure no­body was lis­ten­ing; there were a cou­ple of war­locks sit­ting close by who were star­ing at Har­ry with great in­ter­est, and Zabi­ni was lolling against a pil­lar not far away. “Har­ry, I’d be an­noyed too, I know it’s your things he’s steal­ing—”

Har­ry gagged on his but­ter­beer; he had mo­men­tar­ily for­got­ten that he owned num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place.

“Yeah, it’s my stuff!” he said. “No won­der he wasn’t pleased to see me! Well, I’m go­ing to tell Dum­ble­dore what’s go­ing on, he’s the on­ly one who scares Mundun­gus.”

“Good idea,” whis­pered Hermione, clear­ly pleased that Har­ry was calm­ing down. “Ron, what are you star­ing at?”

“Noth­ing,” said Ron, hasti­ly look­ing away from the bar, but Har­ry knew he was try­ing to catch the eye of the curvy and at­trac­tive bar­maid, Madam Ros­mer­ta, for whom he had long nursed a soft spot.

“I ex­pect ‘noth­ing’s’ in the back get­ting more firewhisky,” said Hermione waspish­ly.

Ron ig­nored this jibe, sip­ping his drink in what he ev­ident­ly con­sid­ered to be a dig­ni­fied si­lence. Har­ry was think­ing about Sir­ius, and how he had hat­ed those sil­ver gob­lets any­way. Hermione drummed her fin­gers on the ta­ble, her eyes flick­er­ing be­tween Ron and the bar. The mo­ment Har­ry drained the last drops in his bot­tle she said, “Shall we call it a day and go back to school, then?”

The oth­er two nod­ded; it had not been a fun trip and the weath­er was get­ting worse the longer they stayed. Once again they drew their cloaks tight­ly around them, re­ar­ranged their scarves, pulled on their gloves, then fol­lowed Katie Bell and a friend out of the pub and back up the High Street. Har­ry’s thoughts strayed to Gin­ny as they trudged up the road to Hog­warts through the frozen slush. They had not met up with her, un­doubt­ed­ly, thought Har­ry, be­cause she and Dean were co­zi­ly clos­et­ed in Madam Pud­di­foot’s Tea Shop, that haunt of hap­py cou­ples. Scowl­ing, he bowed his head against the swirling sleet and trudged on.

It was a lit­tle while be­fore Har­ry be­came aware that the voic­es of Katie Bell and her friend, which were be­ing car­ried back to him on the wind, had be­come shriller and loud­er. Har­ry squint­ed at their in­dis­tinct fig­ures. The two girls were hav­ing an ar­gu­ment about some­thing Katie was hold­ing in her hand. “It’s noth­ing to do with you, Leanne!” Har­ry heard Katie say.

They round­ed a cor­ner in the lane, sleet com­ing thick and fast, blur­ring Har­ry’s glass­es. Just as he raised a gloved hand to wipe them, Leanne made to grab hold of the pack­age Katie was hold­ing; Katie tugged it back and the pack­age fell to the ground.

At once, Katie rose in­to the air, not as Ron had done, sus­pend­ed com­ical­ly by the an­kle, but grace­ful­ly, her arms out­stretched, as though she was about to fly. Yet there was some­thing wrong, some­thing eerie. . . . Her hair was whipped around her by the fierce wind, but her eyes were closed and her face was quite emp­ty of ex­pres­sion. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne had all halt­ed in their tracks, watch­ing.

Then, six feet above the ground, Katie let out a ter­ri­ble scream. Her eyes flew open but what­ev­er she could see, or what­ev­er she was feel­ing, was clear­ly caus­ing her ter­ri­ble an­guish. She screamed and screamed; Leanne start­ed to scream too and seized Katie’s an­kles, try­ing to tug her back to the ground. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione rushed for­ward to help, but even as they grabbed Katie’s legs, she fell on top of them; Har­ry and Ron man­aged to catch her but she was writhing so much they could hard­ly hold her. In­stead they low­ered her to the ground where she thrashed and screamed, ap­par­ent­ly un­able to rec­og­nize any of them.

Har­ry looked around; the land­scape seemed de­sert­ed.

“Stay there!” he shout­ed at the oth­ers over the howl­ing wind. “I’m go­ing for help!”

He be­gan to sprint to­ward the school; he had nev­er seen any­one be­have as Katie had just be­haved and could not think what had caused it; he hur­tled around a bend in the lane and col­lid­ed with what seemed to be an enor­mous bear on its hind legs.

“Ha­grid!” he pant­ed, dis­en­tan­gling him­self from the hedgerow in­to which he had fall­en.

“Har­ry!” said Ha­grid, who had sleet trapped in his eye­brows and beard, and was wear­ing his great, shag­gy beaver­skin coat. “Jus’ bin vis­itin’ Grawp, he’s comin’ on so well yeh wouldn’ —”

“Ha­grid, some­one’s hurt back there, or cursed, or some­thing —”

“Wha ?” said Ha­grid, bend­ing low­er to hear what Har­ry was say­ing over the rag­ing wind.

“Some­one’s been cursed!” bel­lowed Har­ry.

“Cursed? Who’s bin cursed — not Ron? Hermione?”

“No, it’s not them, it’s Katie Bell — this way . . .”

To­geth­er they ran back along the lane. It took them no time to find the lit­tle group of peo­ple around Katie, who was still writhing and scream­ing on the ground; Ron, Hermione, and Leanne were all try­ing to qui­et her.

“Get back!” shout­ed Ha­grid. “Lemme see her!”

“Some­thing’s hap­pened to her!” sobbed Leanne. “I don’t know what —”

Ha­grid stared at Katie for a sec­ond, then with­out a word, bent down, scooped her in­to his arms, and ran off to­ward the cas­tle with her. With­in sec­onds, Katie’s pierc­ing screams had died away and the on­ly sound was the roar of the wind.

Hermione hur­ried over to Katie’s wail­ing friend and put an arm around her.

“It’s Leanne, isn’t it?”

The girl nod­ded.

“Did it just hap­pen all of a sud­den, or — ?”

“It was when that pack­age tore,” sobbed Leanne, point­ing at the now sod­den brown­pa­per pack­age on the ground, which had split open to re­veal a green­ish glit­ter. Ron bent down, his hand out­stretched, but Har­ry seized his arm and pulled him back.

“Don’t touch it!”

He crouched down. An or­nate opal neck­lace was vis­ible, pok­ing out of the pa­per.

“I’ve seen that be­fore,” said Har­ry, star­ing at the thing. “It was on dis­play in Bor­gin and Burkes ages ago. The la­bel said it was cursed. Katie must have touched it.” He looked up at Leanne, who had start­ed to shake un­con­trol­lably. “How did Katie get hold of this?”

“Well, that’s why we were ar­gu­ing. She came back from the bath­room in the Three Broom­sticks hold­ing it, said it was a sur­prise for some­body at Hog­warts and she had to de­liv­er it. She looked all fun­ny when she said it. … Oh no, oh no, I bet she’d been Im­periused and I didn’t re­al­ize!”

Leanne shook with re­newed sobs. Hermione pat­ted her shoul­der gen­tly.

“She didn’t say who’d giv­en it to her, Leanne?”

“No . . . she wouldn’t tell me . . . and I said she was be­ing stupid and not to take it up to school, but she just wouldn’t lis­ten and . . . and then I tried to grab it from her . . . and — and —”

Leanne let out a wail of de­spair.

“We’d bet­ter get up to school,” said Hermione, her arm still around Leanne. “We’ll be able to find out how she is. Come on. . . .”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then pulled his scarf from around his face and, ig­nor­ing Ron’s gasp, care­ful­ly cov­ered the neck­lace in it and picked it up.

“We’ll need to show this to Madam Pom­frey,” he said.

As they fol­lowed Hermione and Leanne up the road, Har­ry was think­ing fu­ri­ous­ly. They had just en­tered the grounds when he spoke, un­able to keep his thoughts to him­self any longer.

“Mal­foy knows about this neck­lace. It was in a case at Bor­gin and Burkes four years ago, I saw him hav­ing a good look at it while I was hid­ing from him and his dad. This is what he was buy­ing that day when we fol­lowed him! He re­mem­bered it and he went back for it!” ,

“I — I dun­no, Har­ry,” said Ron hes­itant­ly. “Loads of peo­ple go to Bor­gin and Burkes . . . and didn’t that girl say Katie got it in the girls’ bath­room?”

“She said she came back from the bath­room with it, she didn’t nec­es­sar­ily get it in the bath­room it­self—”

“McG­ona­gall!” said Ron warn­ing­ly.

Har­ry looked up. Sure enough, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was hur­ry­ing down the stone steps through swirling sleet to meet them.

“Ha­grid says you four saw what hap­pened to Katie Bell — up­stairs to my of­fice at once, please! What’s that you’re hold­ing, Pot­ter?”

“It’s the thing she touched,” said Har­ry.

“Good lord,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing alarmed as she took the neck­lace from Har­ry. “No, no, Filch, they’re with me!” she added hasti­ly, as Filch came shuf­fling ea­ger­ly across the en­trance hall hold­ing his Se­cre­cy Sen­sor aloft. “Take this neck­lace to Pro­fes­sor Snape at once, but be sure not to touch it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!”

Har­ry and the oth­ers fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall up­stairs and in­to her of­fice. The sleetspat­tered win­dows were rat­tling in their frames, and the room was chilly de­spite the fire crack­ling in the grate. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall closed the door and swept around her desk to face Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and the still sob­bing Leanne.

“Well?” she said sharply. “What hap­pened?”

Halt­ing­ly, and with many paus­es while she at­tempt­ed to con­trol her cry­ing, Leanne told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall how Katie had gone to the bath­room in the Three Broom­sticks and re­turned hold­ing the un­marked pack­age, how Katie had seemed a lit­tle odd, and how they had ar­gued about the ad­vis­abil­ity of agree­ing to de­liv­er un­known ob­jects, the ar­gu­ment cul­mi­nat­ing in the tus­sle over the par­cel, which tore open. At this point, Leanne was so over­come, there was no get­ting an­oth­er word out of her.

“All right,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, not un­kind­ly, “go up to the hos­pi­tal wing, please, Leanne, and get Madam Pom­frey to give you some­thing for shock.”

When she had left the room, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned back to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione.

“What hap­pened when Katie touched the neck­lace?”

“She rose up in the air,” said Har­ry, be­fore ei­ther Ron or Hermione could speak, “and then be­gan to scream, and col­lapsed. Pro­fes­sor, can I see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, please?”

“The head­mas­ter is away un­til Mon­day, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing sur­prised.

“Away?” Har­ry re­peat­ed an­gri­ly.

“Yes, Pot­ter, away!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tart­ly. “But any­thing you have to say about this hor­ri­ble busi­ness can be said to me, I’m sure!”

For a split sec­ond, Har­ry hes­itat­ed. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall did not in­vite con­fi­dences; Dum­ble­dore, though in many ways more in­tim­idat­ing, still seemed less like­ly to scorn a the­ory, how­ev­er wild. This was a life­and­death mat­ter, though, and no mo­ment to wor­ry about be­ing laughed at.

“I think Dra­co Mal­foy gave Katie that neck­lace, Pro­fes­sor.”

On one side of him, Ron rubbed his nose in ap­par­ent em­bar­rass­ment; on the oth­er, Hermione shuf­fled her feet as though quite keen to put a bit of dis­tance be­tween her­self and Har­ry.

“That is a very se­ri­ous ac­cu­sa­tion, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, af­ter a shocked pause. “Do you have any proof?”

“No,” said Har­ry, “but…” and he told her about fol­low­ing Mal­foy to Bor­gin and Burkes and the con­ver­sa­tion they had over­heard be­tween him and Mr. Bor­gin.

When he had fin­ished speak­ing, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked slight­ly con­fused.

“Mal­foy took some­thing to Bor­gin and Burkes for re­pair?”

“No, Pro­fes­sor, he just want­ed Bor­gin to tell him how to mend some­thing, he didn’t have it with him. But that’s not the point, the thing is that he bought some­thing at the same time, and I think it was that neck­lace —”

“You saw Mal­foy leav­ing the shop with a sim­ilar pack­age?”

“No, Pro­fes­sor, he told Bor­gin to keep it in the shop for him —”

“But Har­ry,” Hermione in­ter­rupt­ed, “Bor­gin asked him if he want­ed to take it with him, and Mal­foy said no —”

“Be­cause he didn’t want to touch it, ob­vi­ous­ly!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

“What he ac­tu­al­ly said was, ‘How would I look car­ry­ing that down the street?’” said Hermione.

“Well, he would look a bit of a prat car­ry­ing a neck­lace,” in­ter­ject­ed Ron.

“Oh, Ron,” said Hermione de­spair­ing­ly, “it would be all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and quite easy to hide in­side a cloak, so no­body would see it! I think what­ev­er he re­served at Bor­gin and Burkes was noisy or bulky, some­thing he knew would draw at­ten­tion to him if he car­ried it down the street — and in any case,” she pressed on loud­ly, be­fore Har­ry could in­ter­rupt, “I asked Bor­gin about the neck­lace, don’t you re­mem­ber? When I went in to try and find out what Mal­foy had asked him to keep, I saw it there. And Bor­gin just told me the price, he didn’t say it was al­ready sold or any­thing —”

“Well, you were be­ing re­al­ly ob­vi­ous, he re­al­ized what you were up to with­in about five sec­onds, of course he wasn’t go­ing to tell you — any­way, Mal­foy could’ve sent off for it since —”

“That’s enough!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, as Hermione opened her mouth to re­tort, look­ing fu­ri­ous. “Pot­ter, I ap­pre­ci­ate you telling me this, but we can­not point the fin­ger of blame at Mr. Mal­foy pure­ly be­cause he vis­it­ed the shop where this neck­lace might have been pur­chased. The same is prob­ably true of hun­dreds of peo­ple —”

“— that’s what I said —” mut­tered Ron.

“— and in any case, we have put strin­gent se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures in place this year. I do not be­lieve that neck­lace can pos­si­bly have en­tered this school with­out our knowl­edge —”

“But —”

“— and what is more,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with an air of aw­ful fi­nal­ity, “Mr. Mal­foy was not in Hogsmeade to­day.”

Har­ry gaped at her, de­flat­ing.

“How do you know, Pro­fes­sor?”

“Be­cause he was do­ing de­ten­tion with me. He has now failed to com­plete his Trans­fig­ura­tion home­work twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your sus­pi­cions, Pot­ter,” she said as she marched past them, “but I need to go up to the hos­pi­tal wing now to check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all.”

She held open her of­fice door. They had no choice but to file past her with­out an­oth­er word.

Har­ry was an­gry with the oth­er two for sid­ing with McG­ona­gall; nev­er­the­less, he felt com­pelled to join in once they start­ed dis­cussing what had hap­pened.

“So who do you reck­on Katie was sup­posed to give the neck­lace to?” asked Ron, as they climbed the stairs to the com­mon room.

“Good­ness on­ly knows,” said Hermione. “But who­ev­er it was has had a nar­row es­cape. No one could have opened that pack­age with­out touch­ing the neck­lace.”

“It could’ve been meant for loads of peo­ple,” said Har­ry. “Dum­ble­dore — the Death Eaters would love to get rid of him, he must be one of their top tar­gets. Or Slughorn — Dum­ble­dore reck­ons Volde­mort re­al­ly want­ed him and they can’t be pleased that he’s sid­ed with Dum­ble­dore. Or —”

“Or you,” said Hermione, look­ing trou­bled.

“Couldn’t have been,” said Har­ry, “or Katie would’ve just turned around in the lane and giv­en it to me, wouldn’t she? I was be­hind her all the way out of the Three Broom­sticks. It would have made much more sense to de­liv­er the par­cel out­side Hog­warts, what with Filch search­ing ev­ery­one who goes in and out. I won­der why Mal­foy told her to take it in­to the cas­tle?”

“Har­ry, Mal­foy wasn’t in Hogsmeade!” said Hermione, ac­tu­al­ly stamp­ing her foot in frus­tra­tion.

“He must have used an ac­com­plice, then,” said Har­ry. “Crabbe or Goyle — or, come to think of it, an­oth­er Death Eater, he’ll have loads bet­ter cronies than Crabbe and Goyle now he’s joined up —”

Ron and Hermione ex­changed looks that plain­ly said There’s no point ar­gu­ing with him.

“Dil­li­grout,” said Hermione firm­ly as they reached the Fat La­dy.

The por­trait swung open to ad­mit them to the com­mon room. It was quite full and smelled of damp cloth­ing; many peo­ple seemed to have re­turned from Hogsmeade ear­ly be­cause of the bad weath­er. There was no buzz of fear or spec­ula­tion, how­ev­er: Clear­ly, the news of Katie’s fate had not yet spread.

“It wasn’t a very slick at­tack, re­al­ly, when you stop and think about it,” said Ron, ca­su­al­ly turf­ing a first year out of one of the good arm­chairs by the fire so that he could sit down. “The curse didn’t even make it in­to the cas­tle. Not what you’d call fool­proof.”

“You’re right,” said Hermione, prod­ding Ron out of the chair with her foot and of­fer­ing it to the first year again. “It wasn’t very well thoughtout at all.”

“But since when has Mal­foy been one of the world’s great thinkers?” asked Har­ry.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione an­swered him.





