Chapter 14: Felix Felicis


Har­ry had Her­bol­ogy first thing the fol­low­ing morn­ing. He had been un­able to tell Ron and Hermione about his les­son with Dum­ble­dore over break­fast for fear of be­ing over­heard, but he filled them in as they walked across the veg­etable patch to­ward the green­hous­es. The week­end’s bru­tal wind had died out at last; the weird mist had re­turned and it took them a lit­tle longer than usu­al to find the cor­rect green­house.

“Wow, scary thought, the boy YouKnowWho,” said Ron qui­et­ly, as they took their places around one of the gnarled Snar­galuff stumps that formed this terms project, and be­gan pulling on their pro­tec­tive gloves. “But I still don’t get why Dum­ble­dore’s show­ing you all this. I mean, it’s re­al­ly in­ter­est­ing and ev­ery­thing, but what’s the point?”

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry, in­sert­ing a gum shield. “But he says its all im­por­tant and it’ll help me sur­vive.”

“I think it’s fas­ci­nat­ing,” said Hermione earnest­ly. “It makes ab­so­lute sense to know as much about Volde­mort as pos­si­ble. How else will you find out his weak­ness­es?”

“So how was Slughorn’s lat­est par­ty?” Har­ry asked her thick­ly through the gum shield.

“Oh, it was quite fun, re­al­ly,” said Hermione, now putting on pro­tec­tive gog­gles. “I mean, he drones on about fa­mous ex­ploits a bit, and he ab­so­lute­ly fawns on McLaggen be­cause he’s so well con­nect­ed, but he gave us some re­al­ly nice food and he in­tro­duced us to Gwenog Jones.”

“Gwenog Jones?” said Ron, his eyes widen­ing un­der his own gog­gles. “The Gwenog Jones? Cap­tain of the Holy­head Harpies?”

“That’s right,” said Hermione. “Per­son­al­ly, I thought she was a bit full of her­self, but —”

“Quite enough chat over here!” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout briskly, bustling over and look­ing stern. “You’re lag­ging be­hind, ev­ery­body else has start­ed, and Neville’s al­ready got his first pod!”

They looked around; sure enough, there sat Neville with a bloody lip and sev­er­al nasty scratch­es along the side of his face, but clutch­ing an un­pleas­ant­ly pul­sat­ing green ob­ject about the size of a grape­fruit.

“Okay, Pro­fes­sor, we’re start­ing now!” said Ron, adding qui­et­ly, when she had turned away again, “should ve used Muf­flia­to, Har­ry.”

“No, we shouldn’t!” said Hermione at once, look­ing, as she al­ways did, in­tense­ly cross at the thought of the Half­Blood Prince and his spells. “Well, come on … we’d bet­ter get go­ing. …”

She gave the oth­er two an ap­pre­hen­sive look; they all took deep breaths and then dived at the gnarled stump be­tween them.

It sprang to life at once; long, prick­ly, bram­ble­like vines flew out of the top and whipped through the air. One tan­gled it­self in Hermione’s hair, and Ron beat it back with a pair of se­ca­teurs; Har­ry suc­ceed­ed in trap­ping a cou­ple of vines and knot­ting them to­geth­er; a hole opened in the mid­dle of all the ten­ta­cle­like branch­es; Hermione plunged her arm brave­ly in­to this hole, which closed like a trap around her el­bow; Har­ry and Ron tugged and wrenched at the vines, forc­ing the hole to open again, and Her­mi­one snatched her arm free, clutch­ing in her fin­gers a pod just like Neville’s. At once, the prick­ly vines shot back in­side, and the gnarled stump sat there look­ing like an in­no­cent­ly dead lump of wood.

“You know, I don’t think I’ll be hav­ing any of these in my gar­den when I’ve got my own place,” said Ron, push­ing his gog­gles up on­to his fore­head and wip­ing sweat from his face.

“Pass me a bowl,” said Hermione, hold­ing the pul­sat­ing pod at arm’s length; Har­ry hand­ed one over and she dropped the pod in­to it with a look of dis­gust on her face.

“Don’t be squeamish, squeeze it out, they’re best when they’re fresh!” called Pro­fes­sor Sprout.

“Any­way,” said Hermione, con­tin­uing their in­ter­rupt­ed con­ver­sa­tion as though a lump of wood had not just at­tacked them, “Slughorn’s go­ing to have a Christ­mas par­ty, Har­ry, and there’s no way you’ll be able to wrig­gle out of this one be­cause he ac­tu­al­ly asked me to check your free evenings, so he could be sure to have it on a night you can come.”

Har­ry groaned. Mean­while, Ron, who was at­tempt­ing to burst the pod in the bowl by putting both hands on it, stand­ing up, and squash­ing it as hard as he could, said an­gri­ly, “And this is an­oth­er par­ty just for Slughorn’s fa­vorites, is it?”

“Just for the Slug Club, yes,” said Hermione.

The pod flew out from un­der Ron’s fin­gers and hit the green house glass, re­bound­ing on­to the back of Pro­fes­sor Sprout’s head and knock­ing off her old, patched hat. Har­ry went to re­trieve the pod; when he got back, Hermione was say­ing, “Look, I didn’t make up the name ‘Slug Club’ —”

“‘Slug Club,’”re­peat­ed Ron with a sneer wor­thy of Mal­foy. “It’s pa­thet­ic. Well, I hope you en­joy your par­ty. Why don’t you try hook­ing up with McLaggen, then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug —”

“We’re al­lowed to bring guests,” said Hermione, who for some rea­son had turned a bright, boil­ing scar­let, “and I was go­ing to ask you to come, but if you think it’s that stupid then I won’t both­er!”

Har­ry sud­den­ly wished the pod had flown a lit­tle far­ther, so that he need not have been sit­ting here with the pair of them. Un­no­ticed by ei­ther, he seized the bowl that con­tained the pod and be­gan to try and open it by the nois­iest and most en­er­get­ic means he could think of; un­for­tu­nate­ly, he could still hear ev­ery word of their con­ver­sa­tion.

“You were go­ing to ask me?” asked Ron, in a com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent voice.

“Yes,” said Hermione an­gri­ly. “But ob­vi­ous­ly if you’d rather 1 hooked up with McLaggen …”

There was a pause while Har­ry con­tin­ued to pound the re­silient pod with a trow­el.

“No, I wouldn’t,” said Ron, in a very qui­et voice.

Har­ry missed the pod, hit the bowl, and shat­tered it.

‘”Reparo,”‘ he said hasti­ly, pok­ing the pieces with his wand, and the bowl sprang back to­geth­er again. The crash, how­ev­er, ap­peared to have awo­ken Ron and Hermione to Har­ry’s pres­ence. Hermione looked flus­tered and im­me­di­ate­ly start­ed fuss­ing about for her copy of “FleshEat­ing Trees of the World” to find out the cor­rect way to juice Snar­galuff pods; Ron, on the oth­er hand, looked sheep­ish but al­so rather pleased with him­self.

“Hand that over, Har­ry,” said Hermione hur­ried­ly. “It says we’re sup­posed to punc­ture them with some­thing sharp. . . .”

Har­ry passed her the pod in the bowl; he and Ron both snapped their gog­gles back over their eyes and dived, once more, for the stump. It was not as though he was re­al­ly sur­prised, thought Har­ry, as he wres­tled with a thorny vine in­tent up­on throt­tling him; he had had an inkling that this might hap­pen soon­er or lat­er. But he was not sure how he felt about it. … He and Cho were now too em­bar­rassed to look at each oth­er, let alone talk to each oth­er; what if Ron and Hermione start­ed go­ing out to­geth­er, then split up? Could their friend­ship sur­vive it? Har­ry re­mem­bered the few weeks when they had not been talk­ing to each oth­er in the third year; he had not en­joyed try­ing to bridge the dis­tance be­tween them. And then, what if they didn’t split up? What if they be­came like Bill and Fleur, and it be­came ex­cru­ci­at­ing­ly em­bar­rass­ing to be in their pres­ence, so that he was shut out for good?

“Gotcha!” yelled Ron, pulling a sec­ond pod from the stump just as Hermione man­aged to burst the first one open, so that the bowl was full of tu­bers wrig­gling like pale green worms.

The rest of the les­son passed with­out fur­ther men­tion of Slughorn’s par­ty. Al­though Har­ry watched his two friends more close­ly over the next few days, Ron and Hermione did not seem any dif­fer­ent ex­cept that they were a lit­tle po­liter to each oth­er than usu­al. Har­ry sup­posed he would just have to wait to see what

hap­pened un­der the in­flu­ence of but­ter­beer in Slughorn’s dim­ly lit room on the night of the par­ty. In the mean­time, how­ev­er, he had more press­ing wor­ries.

Katie Bell was still in St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal with no prospect of leav­ing, which meant that the promis­ing Gryffind­or team Har­ry had been train­ing so care­ful­ly since Septem­ber was one Chas­er short. He kept putting off re­plac­ing Katie in the hope that she would re­turn, but their open­ing match against Slytherin was loom­ing, and he fi­nal­ly had to ac­cept that she would not be back in time to play.

Har­ry did not think he could stand an­oth­er full­House try­out. With a sink­ing feel­ing that had lit­tle to do with Quid­ditch, he cor­nered Dean Thomas af­ter Trans­fig­ura­tion one day. Most of the class had al­ready left, al­though sev­er­al twit­ter­ing yel­low birds were still zoom­ing around the room, all of Hermione’s cre­ation; no­body else had suc­ceed­ed in con­jur­ing so much as a feath­er from thin air.

“Are you still in­ter­est­ed in play­ing Chas­er?”

“Wha — ? Yeah, of course!” said Dean ex­cit­ed­ly. Over Dean’s shoul­der, Har­ry saw Sea­mus Finnegan slam­ming his books in­to his bag, look­ing sour. One of the rea­sons why Har­ry would have pre­ferred not to have to ask Dean to play was that he knew Sea­mus would not like it. On the oth­er hand, he had to do what was best for the team, and Dean had out­flown Sea­mus at the try­outs.

“Well then, you’re in,” said Har­ry. “There’s a prac­tice tonight, sev­en o’clock.”

“Right,” said Dean. “Cheers, Har­ry! Blimey, I can’t wait to tell Gin­ny!”

He sprint­ed out of the room, leav­ing Har­ry and Sea­mus alone to­geth­er, an un­com­fort­able mo­ment made no eas­ier when a bird drop­ping land­ed on Sea­mus’s head as one of Hermione’s ca­nar­ies whizzed over them.

Sea­mus was not the on­ly per­son dis­grun­tled by the choice of Katie’s sub­sti­tute. There was much mut­ter­ing in the com­mon room about the fact that Har­ry had now cho­sen two of his class­mates for the team. As Har­ry had en­dured much worse mut­ter­in­gs than this in his school ca­reer, he was not par­tic­ular­ly both­ered, but all the same, the pres­sure was in­creas­ing to pro­vide a win in the up­com­ing match against Slytherin. If Gryffind­or won, Har­ry knew that the whole House would for­get that they had crit­icized him and swear that they had al­ways known it was a great team. If they lost. . . well, Har­ry thought wry­ly, he had still en­dured worse mut­ter­in­gs. . . .

Har­ry had no rea­son to re­gret his choice once he saw Dean fly that evening; he worked well with Gin­ny and Demelza. The Beat­ers, Peakes and Coote, were get­ting bet­ter all the time. The on­ly prob­lem was Ron.

Har­ry had known all along that Ron was an in­con­sis­tent play­er who suf­fered from nerves and a lack of con­fi­dence, and un­for­tu­nate­ly, the loom­ing prospect of the open­ing game of the sea­son seemed to have brought out all his old in­se­cu­ri­ties. Af­ter let­ting in half a dozen goals, most of them scored by Gin­ny, his tech­nique be­came wilder and wilder, un­til he fi­nal­ly punched an on­com­ing Demelza Robins in the mouth.

“It was an ac­ci­dent, I’m sor­ry, Demelza, re­al­ly sor­ry!” Ron shout­ed af­ter her as she zigzagged back to the ground, drip­ping blood ev­ery­where. “I just —”

“Pan­icked,” Gin­ny said an­gri­ly, land­ing next to Demelza and ex­am­in­ing her fat lip. “You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!”

“I can fix that,” said Har­ry, land­ing be­side the two girls, point­ing his wand at Demelzas mouth, and say­ing “Episkey.” “And Gin­ny, don’t call Ron a prat, you’re not the Cap­tain of this team —”

“Well, you seemed too busy to call him a prat and I thought some­one should —”

Har­ry forced him­self not to laugh.

“In the air, ev­ery­one, let’s go. . . .”

Over­all it was one of the worst prac­tices they had had all term, though Har­ry did not feel that hon­es­ty was the best pol­icy when they were this close to the match.

“Good work, ev­ery­one, I think we’ll flat­ten Slytherin,” he said brac­ing­ly, and the Chasers and Beat­ers left the chang­ing room look­ing rea­son­ably hap­py with them­selves.

“I played like a sack of drag­on dung,” said Ron in a hol­low voice when the door had swung shut be­hind Gin­ny.

“No, you didn’t,” said Har­ry firm­ly. “You’re the best Keep­er I tried out, Ron. Your on­ly prob­lem is nerves.”

He kept up a re­lent­less flow of en­cour­age­ment all the way back to the cas­tle, and by the time they reached the sec­ond floor, Ron was look­ing marginal­ly more cheer­ful. When Har­ry pushed open the tapestry to take their usu­al short­cut up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, how­ev­er, they found them­selves look­ing at Dean and Gin­ny, who were locked in a close em­brace and kiss­ing fierce­ly as though glued to­geth­er.

It was as though some­thing large and scaly erupt­ed in­to life in Har­ry’s stom­ach, claw­ing at his in­sides: Hot blood seemed to flood his brain, so that all thought was ex­tin­guished, re­placed by a sav­age urge to jinx Dean in­to a jel­ly. Wrestling with this sud­den mad­ness, he heard Ron’s voice as though from a great dis­tance away.

“Oi!”

Dean and Gin­ny broke apart and looked around. “What?” said Gin­ny.

“I don’t want to find my own sis­ter snog­ging peo­ple in pub­lic!” “This was a de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor till you came butting in!” said Gin­ny.

Dean was look­ing em­bar­rassed. He gave Har­ry a shifty grin that Har­ry did not re­turn, as the new­born mon­ster in­side him was roar­ing for Dean’s in­stant dis­missal from the team.

“Er . . . c’mon, Gin­ny,” said Dean, “let’s go back to the com­mon room. …”

“You go!” said Gin­ny. “I want a word with my dear broth­er!” Dean left, look­ing as though he was not sor­ry to de­part the scene.

“Right,” said Gin­ny, toss­ing her long red hair out of her face and glar­ing at Ron, “let’s get this straight once and for all. It is none of your busi­ness who I go out with or what I do with them, Ron —” “Yeah, it is!” said Ron, just as an­gri­ly. “D’ you think I want peo­ple say­ing my sis­ter’s a —”

“A what?” shout­ed Gin­ny, draw­ing her wand. “A what, ex­act­ly?” “He doesn’t mean any­thing, Gin­ny —” said Har­ry au­tomati­cal­ly, though the mon­ster was roar­ing its ap­proval of Ron’s words. “Oh yes he does!” she said, flar­ing up at Har­ry. “Just be­cause he’s nev­er snogged any­one in his life, just be­cause the best kiss he’s ev­er had is from our Aun­tie Muriel —”

“Shut your mouth!” bel­lowed Ron, by­pass­ing red and turn­ing ma­roon.

“No, I will not!” yelled Gin­ny, be­side her­self. “I’ve seen you with Phlegm, hop­ing she’ll kiss you on the cheek ev­ery time you see her, it’s pa­thet­ic! If you went out and got a bit of snog­ging done your self, you wouldn’t mind so much that ev­ery­one else does it!”

Ron had pulled out his wand too; Har­ry stepped swift­ly be­tween them.

“You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about!” Ron roared, try­ing to get a clear shot at Gin­ny around Har­ry, who was now stand­ing in front of her with his arms out­stretched. “Just be­cause I don’t do it in pub­lic — !”

Gin­ny screamed with de­ri­sive laugh­ter, try­ing to push Har­ry out of the way.

“Been kiss­ing Pig­wid­geon, have you? Or have you got a pic­ture of Aun­tie Muriel stashed un­der your pil­low?” You —

A streak of or­ange light flew un­der Har­rys left arm and missed Gin­ny by inch­es; Har­ry pushed Ron up against the wall.

“Don’t be stupid —”

“Har­ry’s snogged Cho Chang!” shout­ed Gin­ny, who sound­ed close to tears now. “And Hermione snogged Vik­tor Krum, it’s on­ly you who acts like it’s some­thing dis­gust­ing, Ron, and that’s be­cause you’ve got about as much ex­pe­ri­ence as a twelveyearold!”

And with that, she stormed away. Har­ry quick­ly let go of Ron; the look on his face was mur­der­ous. They both stood there, breath­ing heav­ily, un­til Mrs. Nor­ris, Rich’s cat, ap­peared around the cor­ner, which broke the ten­sion.

“C’mon,” said Har­ry, as the sound of Filch’s shuf­fling feet reached their ears.

They hur­ried up the stairs and along a sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor. “Oi, out of the way!” Ron barked at a small girl who jumped in fright and dropped a bot­tle of toad­spawn.

Har­ry hard­ly no­ticed the sound of shat­ter­ing glass; he felt dis­ori­ent­ed, dizzy; be­ing struck by a light­ning bolt must be some­thing like this. It’s just be­cause she’s Ron’s sis­ter, he told him­self. You just didn’t like see­ing her kiss­ing Dean be­cause she’s Ron’s sis­ter. . . .

But un­bid­den in­to his mind came an im­age of that same de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor with him­self kiss­ing Gin­ny in­stead. . . . The mon­ster in his chest purred . . . but then he saw Ron rip­ping open the tapestry cur­tain and draw­ing his wand on Har­ry, shout­ing things like “be­tray­al of trust” . . . “sup­posed to be my friend” . . .

“D’you think Hermione did snog Krum?” Ron asked abrupt­ly, as they ap­proached the Fat La­dy. Har­ry gave a guilty start and wrenched his imag­ina­tion away from a cor­ri­dor in which no Ron in­trud­ed, in which he and Gin­ny were quite alone — “What?” he said con­fus­ed­ly. “Oh … er …” The hon­est an­swer was “yes,” but he did not want to give it. How­ev­er, Ron seemed to gath­er the worst from the look on Har­ry’s face.

“Dil­li­grout,” he said dark­ly to the Fat La­dy, and they climbed through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room.

Nei­ther of them men­tioned Gin­ny or Hermione again; in­deed, they bare­ly spoke to each oth­er that evening and got in­to bed in si­lence, each ab­sorbed in his own thoughts,

Har­ry lay awake for a long time, look­ing up at the canopy of his four­poster and try­ing to con­vince him­self that his feel­in­gs for Gin­ny were en­tire­ly el­der­broth­er­ly. They had lived, had they not, like broth­er and sis­ter all sum­mer, play­ing Quid­ditch, teas­ing Ron, and hav­ing a laugh about Bill and Phlegm? He had known Gin­ny for years now. … It was nat­ural that he should feel pro­tec­tive . . . nat­ural that he should want to look out for her . . . want to rip Dean limb from limb for kiss­ing her… No … he would have to con­trol that par­tic­ular broth­er­ly feel­ing. . . .

Ron gave a great grunt­ing snore.

She’s Ron’s sis­ter, Har­ry told him­self firm­ly. Ron’s sis­ter. She’s out­of­bounds. He would not risk his friend­ship with Ron for any­thing. He punched his pil­low in­to a more com­fort­able shape and wait­ed for sleep to come, try­ing his ut­most not to al­low his thoughts to stray any­where near Gin­ny.

Har­ry awoke next morn­ing feel­ing slight­ly dazed and con­fused by a se­ries of dreams in which Ron had chased him with a Beat­er’s bat, but by mid­day he would have hap­pi­ly ex­changed the dream Ron for the re­al one, who was not on­ly cold­shoul­der­ing Gin­ny and Dean, but al­so treat­ing a hurt and be­wil­dered Hermione with an icy, sneer­ing in­dif­fer­ence. What was more, Ron seemed to have be­come, overnight, as touchy and ready to lash out as the av­er­age Blas­tEnd­ed Skrewt. Har­ry spent the day at­tempt­ing to keep the peace be­tween Ron and Hermione with no suc­cess; fi­nal­ly, Hermione de­part­ed for bed in high dud­geon, and Ron stalked off to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ry af­ter swear­ing an­gri­ly at sev­er­al fright­ened first years for look­ing at him.

To Har­ry’s dis­may, Ron’s new ag­gres­sion did not wear off over the next few days. Worse still, it co­in­cid­ed with an even deep­er dip in his Keep­ing skills, which made him still more ag­gres­sive, so that dur­ing the fi­nal Quid­ditch prac­tice be­fore Sat­ur­days match, he failed to save ev­ery sin­gle goal the Chasers aimed at him, but bel­lowed at ev­ery­body so much that he re­duced Demelza Robins to tears.

“You shut up and leave her alone!” shout­ed Peakes, who was about twothirds Ron’s height, though ad­mit­ted­ly car­ry­ing a heavy bat.

“ENOUGH!” bel­lowed Har­ry, who had seen Gin­ny glow­er­ing in Ron’s di­rec­tion and, re­mem­ber­ing her rep­uta­tion as an ac­com­plished cast­er of the Bat­Bo­gey Hex, soared over to in­ter­vene be­fore things got out of hand. “Peakes, go and pack up the Bludgers. Demelza, pull your­self to­geth­er, you played re­al­ly well to­day, Ron . . .” he wait­ed un­til the rest of the team were out of earshot be­fore say­ing it, “you’re my best mate, but car­ry on treat­ing the rest of them like this and I’m go­ing to kick you off the team.”

He re­al­ly thought for a mo­ment that Ron might hit him, but then some­thing much worse hap­pened: Ron seemed to sag on his broom. all the fight went out of him and he said, “I re­sign. I’m pa­thet­ic.”

“You’re not pa­thet­ic and you’re not re­sign­ing!” said Har­ry fierce­ly, seiz­ing Ron by the front of his robes. “You can save any­thing when you’re on form, it’s a men­tal prob­lem you’ve got!” “You call­ing me men­tal?” “Yeah, maybe I am!”

They glared at each oth­er for a mo­ment, then Ron shook his head weari­ly. “I know you haven’t got any time to find an­oth­er Keep­er, so I’ll play to­mor­row, but if we lose, and we will, I’m tak­ing my­self off the team.”

Noth­ing Har­ry said made any dif­fer­ence. He tried boost­ing Ron’s con­fi­dence all through din­ner, but Ron was too busy be­ing grumpy and surly with Hermione to no­tice. Har­ry per­sist­ed in the com­mon room that evening, but his as­ser­tion that the whole team would be dev­as­tat­ed if Ron left was some­what un­der­mined by the fact that the rest of the team was sit­ting in a hud­dle in a dis­tant cor­ner, clear­ly mut­ter­ing about Ron and cast­ing him nasty looks. Fi­nal­ly Har­ry tried get­ting an­gry again in the hope of pro­vok­ing Ron in­to a de­fi­ant, and hope­ful­ly goal­sav­ing, at­ti­tude, but this strat­egy did not ap­pear to work any bet­ter than en­cour­age­ment; Ron went to bed as de­ject­ed and hope­less as ev­er.

Har­ry lay awake for a very long time in the dark­ness. He did not want to lose the up­com­ing match; not on­ly was it his first as Cap­tain, but he was de­ter­mined to beat Dra­co Mal­foy at Quid­ditch even if he could not yet prove his sus­pi­cions about him. Yet if Ron played as he had done in the last few prac­tices, their chances of win­ning were very slim. . . .

If on­ly there was some­thing he could do to make Ron pull him­self to­geth­er . . . make him play at the top of his form . . . some­thing that would en­sure that Ron had a re­al­ly good day. . . .

And the an­swer came to Har­ry in one, sud­den, glo­ri­ous stroke of in­spi­ra­tion.

Break­fast was the usu­al ex­citable af­fair next morn­ing; the Slytherins hissed and booed loud­ly as ev­ery mem­ber of the Gryffind­or team en­tered the Great Hall. Har­ry glanced at the ceil­ing and saw a clear, pale blue sky: a good omen.

The Gryffind­or ta­ble, a sol­id mass of red and gold, cheered as Har­ry and Ron ap­proached. Har­ry grinned and waved; Ron gri­maced weak­ly and shook his head.

“Cheer up, Ron!” called Laven­der. “I know you’ll be bril­liant!” : Ron ig­nored her.

“Tea?” Har­ry asked him. “Cof­fee? Pump­kin juice?” “Any­thing,” said Ron glum­ly, tak­ing a moody bite of toast.

A few min­utes lat­er Hermione, who had be­come so tired of Ron’s re­cent un­pleas­ant be­hav­ior that she had not come down to break­fast with them, paused on her way up the ta­ble.

“How are you both feel­ing?” she asked ten­ta­tive­ly, her eyes on the back of Ron’s head.

“Fine,” said Har­ry, who was con­cen­trat­ing on hand­ing Ron a glass of pump­kin juice. “There you go, Ron. Drink up.”

Ron had just raised the glass to his lips when Hermione spoke

sharply.

“Don’t drink that, Ron!”

Both Har­ry and Ron looked up at her.

“Why not?” said Ron.

Hermione was now star­ing at Har­ry as though she could not be­lieve her eyes.

“You just put some­thing in that drink.”

“Ex­cuse me?” said Har­ry.

“You heard me. I saw you. You just tipped some­thing in­to Ron’s drink. You’ve got the bot­tle in your hand right now!”

“I dont know what you’re talk­ing about,” said Har­ry, stow­ing the lit­tle bot­tle hasti­ly in his pock­et.

“Ron, I warn you, don’t drink it!” Hermione said again, alarmed, but Ron picked up the glass, drained it in one gulp, and said, “Stop boss­ing me around, Hermione.”

She looked scan­dal­ized. Bend­ing low so that on­ly Har­ry could hear her, she hissed, “You should be ex­pelled for that. I’d nev­er have be­lieved it of you, Har­ry!”

“Look who’s talk­ing,” he whis­pered back. “Con­fund­ed any­one late­ly?”

She stormed up the ta­ble away from them. Har­ry watched her go with­out re­gret. Hermione had nev­er re­al­ly un­der­stood what a se­ri­ous busi­ness Quid­ditch was. He then looked around at Ron, who was smack­ing his lips.

“Near­ly time/’ said Har­ry blithe­ly.

The frosty grass crunched un­der­foot as they strode down to the sta­di­um.

“Pret­ty lucky the weath­ers this good, eh?” Har­ry asked Ron.

“Yeah,” said Ron, who was pale and sick­look­ing.

Gin­ny and Demelza were al­ready wear­ing their Quid­ditch robes and wait­ing in the chang­ing room.

“Con­di­tions look ide­al,” said Gin­ny, ig­nor­ing Ron. “And guess what? That Slytherin Chas­er Vaisey — he took a Bludger in the head yes­ter­day dur­ing their prac­tice, and he’s too sore to play! And even bet­ter than that — Mal­foy’s gone off sick too!”

“What?” said Har­ry, wheel­ing around to stare at her. “He’s ill? What’s wrong with him?”

“No idea, but it’s great for us,” said Gin­ny bright­ly. “They’re play­ing Harp­er in­stead; he’s in my year and he’s an id­iot.”

Har­ry smiled back vague­ly, but as he pulled on his scar­let robes his mind was far from Quid­ditch. Mal­foy had once be­fore claimed he could not play due to in­ju­ry, but on that oc­ca­sion he had made sure the whole match was resched­uled for a time that suit­ed the Slytherins bet­ter. Why was he now hap­py to let a sub­sti­tute go on? Was he re­al­ly ill, or was he fak­ing?

“Fishy, isn’t it?” he said in an un­der­tone to Ron. “Mal­foy not play­ing?”

“Lucky, I call it,” said Ron, look­ing slight­ly more an­imat­ed. “And Vaisey off too, he’s their best goal scor­er, I didn’t fan­cy — hey!” he said sud­den­ly, freez­ing halfway through pulling on his Keep­ers gloves and star­ing at Har­ry.

“What?”

“I… you . . .” Ron had dropped his voice, he looked both scared and ex­cit­ed. “My drink … my pump­kin juice … you didn’t…?”

Har­ry raised his eye­brows, but said noth­ing ex­cept, “We’ll be start­ing in about five min­utes, you’d bet­ter get your boots on.”

They walked out on­to the pitch to tu­mul­tu­ous roars and boos. One end of the sta­di­um was sol­id red and gold; the oth­er, a sea of green and sil­ver. Many Huf­flepuffs and Raven­claws had tak­en sides too: Amidst all the yelling and clap­ping Har­ry could dis­tinct­ly hear the roar of Lu­na Love­good’s fa­mous li­on­topped hat.

Har­ry stepped up to Madam Hooch, the ref­er­ee, who was stand­ing ready to re­lease the balls from the crate.

“Cap­tains shake hands,” she said, and Har­ry had his hand crushed by the new Slytherin Cap­tain, Urquhart. “Mount your brooms. On the whis­tle . . . three . . . two . . . one . . .”

The whis­tle sound­ed, Har­ry and the oth­ers kicked off hard from the frozen ground, and they were away.

Har­ry soared around the per­ime­ter of the grounds, look­ing around for the Snitch and keep­ing one eye on Harp­er, who was zigzag­ging far be­low him. Then a voice that was jar­ring­ly dif­fer­ent to the usu­al com­men­ta­tor’s start­ed up.

“Well, there they go, and I think we’re all sur­prised to see the team that Pot­ter’s put to­geth­er this year. Many thought, giv­en Ronald Weasley’s patchy per­for­mance as Keep­er last year, that he might be off the team, but of course, a close per­son­al friend­ship with the Cap­tain does help. . . .”

These words were greet­ed with jeers and ap­plause from the Slytherin end of the pitch. Har­ry craned around on his broom to look to­ward the com­men­ta­tor’s po­di­um. A call, skin­ny blond buy with an up­turned nose was stand­ing there, talk­ing in­to the mag­ical mega­phone that had once been Lee Jor­dan’s; Har­ry rec­og­nized Zacharias Smith, a Huf­flepuff play­er whom he hearti­ly dis­liked.

“Oh, and here comes Slytherin’s first at­tempt on goal, it’s Urquhart streak­ing down the pitch and —”

Har­rys stom­ach turned over.

“— Weasley saves it, well, he’s bound to get lucky some­times, I sup­pose. . . .”

“That’s right, Smith, he is,” mut­tered Har­ry, grin­ning to him­self, as he dived amongst the Chasers with his eyes search­ing all around for some hint of the elu­sive Snitch.

With half an hour of the game gone, Gryffind­or were lead­ing six­ty points to ze­ro, Ron hav­ing made some tru­ly spec­tac­ular saves, some by the very tips of his gloves, and Gin­ny hav­ing scored four of Gryffind­or’s six goals. This ef­fec­tive­ly stopped Zacharias won­de­ring loud­ly whether the two Weasleys were on­ly there be­cause Har­ry liked them, and he start­ed on Peakes and Coote in­stead.

“Of course, Coote isn’t re­al­ly the usu­al build for a Beat­er,” said Zacharias lofti­ly, “they’ve gen­er­al­ly got a bit more mus­cle —”

“Hit a Bludger at him!” Har­ry called to Coote as he zoomed past, but Coote, grin­ning broad­ly, chose to aim the next Bludger at Harp­er in­stead, who was just pass­ing Har­ry in the op­po­site di­rec­tion. Har­ry was pleased to hear the dull thunk that meant the Bludger had found its mark.

It seemed as though Gryffind­or could do no wrong. Again and again they scored, and again and again, at the oth­er end of the pitch, Ron saved goals with ap­par­ent ease. He was ac­tu­al­ly smil­ing now, and when the crowd greet­ed a par­tic­ular­ly good save with a

rous­ing cho­rus of the old fa­vorite “Weasley Is Our King,” he pre­tend­ed to con­duct them from on high.

“Thinks he’s some­thing spe­cial to­day, doesn’t he?” said a snide voice, and Har­ry was near­ly knocked off his broom as Harp­er col­lid­ed with him hard and de­lib­er­ate­ly. “Your blood­traitor pal…” Madam Hooch’s back was turned, and though Gryffind­ors be­low shout­ed in anger, by the time she looked around, Harp­er had al­ready sped off. His shoul­der aching, Har­ry raced af­ter him, de­ter­mined to ram him back. …

“And I think Harp­er of Slytherin’s seen the Snitch!” said Zacharias Smith through his mega­phone. “Yes, he’s cer­tain­ly seen some­thing Pot­ter hasn’t!”

Smith re­al­ly was an id­iot, thought Har­ry, hadn’t he no­ticed them col­lide? But next mo­ment, his stom­ach seemed to drop out of the , sky — Smith was right and Har­ry was wrong: Harp­er had not sped up­ward at ran­dom; he had spot­ted what Har­ry had not: The Snitch was speed­ing along high above them, glint­ing bright­ly against the clear blue sky.

Har­ry ac­cel­er­at­ed; the wind was whistling in his ears so that it drowned all sound of Smith’s com­men­tary or the crowd, but Harp­er was still ahead of him, and Gryffind­or was on­ly a hun­dred points up; if Harp­er got there first Gryffind­or had lost. . . and now Harp­er was feet from it, his hand out­stretched. …

“Oi, Harp­er!” yelled Har­ry in des­per­ation. “How much did Mal­foy pay you to come on in­stead of him?”

He did not know what made him say it, but Harp­er did a dou­ble­take; he fum­bled the Snitch, let it slip through his fin­gers, and shot right past it. Har­ry made a great swipe for the tiny, flut­ter­ing ball and caught it.

“YES!” Hairy yelled. Wheel­ing around, he hur­tled back to­ward the ground, the Snitch held high in his hand. As the crowd re­al­ized what had hap­pened, a great shout went up that al­most drowned the sound of the whis­tle that sig­naled the end of the game.

“Gin­ny, where’re you go­ing?” yelled Har­ry, who had found hint self trapped in the midst of a mass midair hug with the rest of tin1 team, but Gin­ny sped right on past them un­til, with an almighty crash, she col­lid­ed with the com­men­ta­tors po­di­um. As the crowd shrieked and laughed, the Gryffind­or team land­ed be­side the wreck­age of wood un­der which Zacharias was fee­bly stir­ring,: Har­ry heard Gin­ny say­ing blithe­ly to an irate Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “For­got to brake, Pro­fes­sor, sor­ry.”

Laugh­ing, Har­ry broke free of the rest of the team and hugged Gin­ny, but let go very quick­ly. Avoid­ing her gaze, he clapped cheer­ing Ron on the back in­stead as, all en­mi­ty for­got­ten, the Gryffind­or team left the pitch arm in arm, punch­ing the air ami wav­ing to their sup­port­ers.

The at­mo­sphere in the chang­ing room was ju­bi­lant. “Par­ty up in the com­mon room, Sea­mus said!” yelled Dean ex­uber­ant­ly. “C’mon, Gin­ny, Demelza!”

Ron and Har­ry were the last two in the chang­ing room. They were just about to leave when Hermione en­tered. She was twist­ing her Gryffind­or scarf in her hands and looked up­set but de­ter­mined. “I want a word with you, Har­ry.” She took a deep breath. “Yon shouldn’t have done it. You heard Slughorn, its il­le­gal.” “What are you go­ing to do, turn us in?” de­mand­ed Ron. “What are you two talk­ing about?” asked Har­ry, turn­ing away to hang up his robes so that nei­ther of them would see him grin­ning, “You know per­fect­ly well what we’re talk­ing about!” said Hermione shril­ly. “You spiked Rons juice with lucky po­tion at break­fast! I’elix Fe­li­cis!”

“No, I didn’t,” said Har­ry, turn­ing back to face them both.

“Yes you did, Har­ry, and that’s why ev­ery­thing went right, there were Slytherin play­ers miss­ing and Ron saved ev­ery­thing!”

“I didn’t put it in!” said Har­ry, grin­ning broad­ly. He slipped his hand in­side his jack­et pock­et and drew out the tiny bot­tle that Hermione had seen in his hand that morn­ing. It was full of gold­en po­tion and the cork was still tight­ly sealed with wax. “I want­ed Ron to think I’d done it, so I faked it when I knew you were look­ing.” He looked at Ron. “You saved ev­ery­thing be­cause you felt lucky. You did it all your­self.”

He pock­et­ed the po­tion again.

“There re­al­ly wasn’t any­thing in my pump­kin juice?” Ron said, as­tound­ed. “But the weath­er’s good. . . and Vaisey couldn’t play. … I hon­est­ly haven’t been giv­en lucky po­tion?” ]

Har­ry shook his head. Ron gaped at him for a mo­ment, then round­ed on Hermione, im­itat­ing her voice. “You added Fe­lix Fe­li­cis to Ron’s juice this morn­ing, that’s why he saved ev­ery­thing! See! I can save goals with­out help, Hermione!”

“I nev­er said you couldn’t — Ron, you thought you’d been giv­en it too!”

But Ron had al­ready strode past her out of the door with his broom­stick over his shoul­der.

“Er,” said Har­ry in­to the sud­den si­lence; he had not ex­pect­ed his plan to back­fire like this, “shall. . . shall we go up to the par­ty, then?”

“You go!” said Hermione, blink­ing back tears. “I’m sick of Ron at the mo­ment, I don’t know what I’m sup­posed to have done. . . .”

And she stormed out of the chang­ing room too.

Har­ry walked slow­ly back up the grounds to­ward the cas­tle through the crowd, many of whom shout­ed con­grat­ula­tions at him, but he felt a great sense of let­down; he had been sure that if Ron won the match, he and Hermione would be friends again im­me­di­ate­ly. He did not see how he could pos­si­bly ex­plain to Her­mi­one that what she had done to of­fend Ron was kiss Vik­tor Krum, not when the of­fense had oc­curred so long ago.

Har­ry could not see Hermione at the Gryffind­or cel­ebra­tion par­ty, which was in full swing when he ar­rived. Re­newed cheers and clap­ping greet­ed his ap­pear­an­ce, and he was soon sur­round­ed by a mob of peo­ple con­grat­ulat­ing him. What with try­ing to shake off the Creevey broth­ers, who want­ed a blow­by­blow match anal­ysis, and the large group of girls that en­cir­cled him, laugh­ing at his least amus­ing com­ments and bat­ting their eye­lids, it was some time be­fore he could try and find Ron. At last, he ex­tri­cat­ed him­self from Romil­da Vane, who was hint­ing heav­ily that she would like to go to Slughorn’s Christ­mas par­ty with him. As he was duck­ing to­ward the drinks ta­ble, he walked straight in­to Gin­ny, Arnold the Pygmy Puff rid­ing on her shoul­der and Crook­shanks mew­ing hope­ful­ly at her heels.

“Look­ing for Ron?” she asked, smirk­ing. “He’s over there, the filthy hyp­ocrite.”

Har­ry looked in­to the cor­ner she was in­di­cat­ing. There, in full view of the whole room, stood Ron wrapped so close­ly around Laven­der Brown it was hard to tell whose hands were whose.

“It looks like he’s eat­ing her face, doesn’t it?” said Gin­ny dis­pas­sion­ate­ly. “But I sup­pose he’s got to re­fine his tech­nique some­how. Good game, Har­ry.”

She pat­ted him on the arm; Har­ry felt a swoop­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach, but then she walked off to help her­self to more but­ter­beer. Crook­shanks trot­ted af­ter her, his yel­low eyes fixed up­on Arnold.

Har­ry turned away from Ron, who did not look like he would be sur­fac­ing soon, just as the por­trait hole was clos­ing. With a sink­ing feel­ing, he thought he saw a mane of bushy brown hair whip­ping out of sight.

He dart­ed for­ward, sidestepped Romil­da Vane again, and pushed open the por­trait of the Fat La­dy. The cor­ri­dor out­side , seemed to be de­sert­ed.

“Hermione?”

He found her in the first un­locked class­room he tried. She was sit­ting on the teach­er’s desk, alone ex­cept for a small ring of twit­ter­ing yel­low birds cir­cling her head, which she had clear­ly just con­ju­red out of midair. Har­ry could not help ad­mir­ing her spell­work at a time like this.

“Oh, hel­lo, Har­ry,” she said in a brit­tle voice. “I was just prac­tic­ing.”

“Yeah . . . they’re — er — re­al­ly good. …” said Har­ry.

He had no idea what to say to her. He was just won­der­ing whether there was any chance that she had not no­ticed Ron, that she had mere­ly left the room be­cause the par­ty was a lit­tle too row­dy, when she said, in an un­nat­ural­ly high­pitched voice, “Ron seems to be en­joy­ing the cel­ebra­tions.”

“Er . . . does he?” said Har­ry.

“Don’t pre­tend you didn’t see him,” said Hermione. “He wasn’t ex­act­ly hid­ing it, was — ?”

The door be­hind them burst open. To Har­ry’s hor­ror, Ron came in, laugh­ing, pulling Laven­der by the hand. ; ‘

“Oh,” he said, draw­ing up short at the sight of Har­ry and Hermione.

“Oops!” said Laven­der, and she backed out of the room, gig­gling. The door swung shut be­hind her.

There was a hor­ri­ble, swelling, bil­low­ing si­lence. Hermione was star­ing at Ron, who re­fused to look at her, but said with an odd mix­ture of bra­va­do and awk­ward­ness, “Hi, Har­ry! Won­dered where you’d got to!”

Hermione slid off the desk. The lit­tle flock of gold­en birds con­tin­ued to twit­ter in cir­cles around her head so that she looked like a strange, feath­ery mod­el of the so­lar sys­tem.

“You shouldn’t leave Laven­der wait­ing out­side,” she said qui­et­ly. “She’ll won­der where you’ve gone.”

She walked very slow­ly and erect­ly to­ward the door. Har­ry glanced at Ron, who was look­ing re­lieved that noth­ing worse had hap­pened.

“Op­pug­no!” came a shriek from the door­way.

Har­ry spun around to see Hermione point­ing her wand at Ron, her ex­pres­sion wild: The lit­tle flock of birds was speed­ing like a hail of fat gold­en bul­lets to­ward Ron, who yelped and cov­ered his face with his hands, but the birds at­tacked, peck­ing and claw­ing at ev­ery bit of flesh they could reach.

“Ger­re­moffme!” he yelled, but with one last look of vin­dic­tive fury, Hermione wrenched open the door and dis­ap­peared through it. Har­ry thought he heard a sob be­fore it slammed.





