Chapter 18: Birthday Surprises


The next day Har­ry con­fid­ed in both Ron and Hermione the task that Dum­ble­dore had set him, though sep­arate­ly, for Hermione still re­fused to re­main in Ron’s pres­ence longer than it took to give him a con­temp­tu­ous look.

Ron thought that Har­ry was un­like­ly to have any trou­ble with Slughorn at all.

‘He loves you,’ he said over break­fast, wav­ing an airy fork­ful of fried egg. ‘Won’t refuse you any­thing, will he? Not his lit­tle Po­tions Prince. Just hang back af­ter class this af­ter­noon and ask him.’

Hermione, how­ev­er, took a gloo­mi­er view.

‘He must be de­ter­mined to hide what re­al­ly hap­pened if Dum­ble­dore couldn’t get it out of him,’ she said in a low voice, as they stood in the de­sert­ed, snowy court­yard at break. ‘Hor­crux­es … Hor­crux­es … I’ve nev­er even heard of them …’

‘You haven’t?’

Har­ry was dis­ap­point­ed; he had hoped that Hermione might have been able to give him a clue as to what Hor­crux­es were.

‘They must be re­al­ly ad­vanced Dark mag­ic, or why would Volde­mort have want­ed to know about them? I think it’s go­ing to be dif­fi­cult to get the in­for­ma­tion, Har­ry, you’ll have to be very care­ful about how you ap­proach Slughorn, think out a strat­egy …”

‘Ron reck­ons 1 should just hang back af­ter Po­tions this af­ter­noon …’

‘Oh, well, if Won­Won thinks that, you’d bet­ter do it,’ she said, flar­ing up at once. ‘Af­ter all, when has Won­Won’s judge­ment ev­er been faulty?’

‘Hermione, can’t you —’

‘No!’ she said an­gri­ly, and stormed away, leav­ing Har­ry alone and an­kledeep in snow.

Po­tions lessons were un­com­fort­able enough these days, see­ing as Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had to share a desk. To­day, Hermione moved her caul­dron around the ta­ble so that she was close to Ernie, and ig­nored both Har­ry and Ron.

‘What’ve you done?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, look­ing at Hermione’s haughty pro­file.

But be­fore Har­ry could an­swer, Slughorn was call­ing for si­lence from the front of the room.

‘Set­tle down, set­tle down, please! Quick­ly, now, lots of work to get through this af­ter­noon! Gol­palott’s Third Law … who can tell me -? But Miss Granger can, of course!’

Hermione re­cit­ed at top speed: ‘Gol­palott’sThird­Law- stat­esthatthean­ti­dote­forablend­ed­poi­son­will­bee­qual­to- morethanthe­sumofthean­ti­dotes­fore­achofthe­sep­ar­ale- com­po­nents.’

‘Pre­cise­ly!’ beamed Slughorn. Ten points for Gryffind­or! Now, if we ac­cept Gol­palott’s Third Law as true …”

Har­ry was go­ing to have to take Slughorn’s word for it that Gol­palott’s Third Law was true, be­cause he had not un­der­stood any of it. No­body apart from Hermione seemed to be fol­low­ing what Slughorn said next, ei­ther.

‘… which means, of course, that as­sum­ing we have achieved cor­rect iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of the po­tion’s in­gre­di­ents by Scarpin’s Rev­elaspell, our pri­ma­ry aim is not the rel­ative­ly sim­ple one of se­lect­ing an­ti­dotes to those in­gre­di­ents in a

of them­selves, but to find that added com­po­nent which will, by an al­most al­chem­ical pro­cess, trans­form these dis­parate el­ements -’

Ron was sit­ting be­side Har­ry with his mouth hal­fopen, doo­dling ab­sent­ly on his new copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. Ron kept for­get­ting that he could no longer re­ly on Hermione to help him out of trou­ble when he failed to grasp what was go­ing on.

‘… and so,’ fin­ished Slughorn, ‘I want each of you to come and take one of these phials from my desk. You are to cre­ate an an­ti­dote for the poi­son with­in it be­fore the end of the les­son. Good luck, and don’t for­get your pro­tec­tive gloves!’

Hermione had left her stool and was halfway to­wards Siughorn’s desk be­fore the rest of the class had re­alised it was time to move, and by the time Har­ry, Ron and Ernie re­turned to the ta­ble, she had al­ready tipped the con­tents of her phial in­to her caul­dron and was kin­dling a fire un­der­neath it.

‘it’s a shame that the Prince won’t be able to help you much with this, Har­ry,’ she said bright­ly as she straight­ened up. ‘You have to un­der­stand the prin­ci­ples in­volved this time. No short cuts or cheats!’

An­noyed, Har­ry un­corked the poi­son he had tak­en from Siughorn’s desk, which was a gar­ish shade of pink, tipped it in­to his caul­dron and lit a fire un­der­neath it. He did not have the faintest idea what he was sup­posed to do next. He glanced at Ron, who was now stand­ing there look­ing rather gorm­less, hav­ing copied ev­ery­thing Har­ry had done.

‘You sure the Prince hasn’t got any tips?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry.

Har­ry pulled out his trusty copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and turned to the chap­ter on An­ti­dotes. There was Gol­palott’s Third Law, stat­ed word for word as Hermione had re­cit­ed it, but not a sin­gle il­lu­mi­nat­ing note in the Prince’s hand to ex­plain what it meant. Ap­par­ent­ly the Prince, like Hermione, had had no dif­fi­cul­ty un­der­stand­ing it.

‘Noth­ing,’ said Har­ry gloo­mi­ly.

Hermione was now wav­ing her wand en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly over her caul­dron. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, they could not copy the spell she was do­ing be­cause she was now so good at non­ver­bal in­can­tations that she did not need to say the words aloud. Ernie Macmil­lan, how­ev­er, was mut­ter­ing, ‘Spe­cialis rev­elio!’ over his caul­dron, which sound­ed im­pres­sive, so Har­ry and Ron has­tened to im­itate him.

It took Har­ry on­ly five min­utes to re­alise that his rep­uta­tion as the best po­tion­mak­er in the class was crash­ing around his ears. Slughorn had peered hope­ful­ly in­to his caul­dron on his first cir­cuit of the dun­geon, prepar­ing to ex­claim in de­light as he usu­al­ly did, and in­stead had with­drawn his head hasti­ly, cough­ing, as the smell of bad eggs over­whelmed him. Hermione’s ex­pres­sion could not have been any smug­ger; she had loathed be­ing out­per­formed in ev­ery Po­tions class. She was now de­cant­ing the mys­te­ri­ous­ly sep­arat­ed in­gre­di­ents of her poi­son in­to ten dif­fer­ent crys­tal phials. More to avoid watch­ing this ir­ri­tat­ing sight than any­thing else, Har­ry bent over the Half­Blood Prince’s book and turned a few pages with un­nec­es­sary force.

And there it was, scrawled right across a long list of an­ti­dotes.

Just shove a be­zoar down their throats.

Har­ry stared at these words for a mo­ment. Hadn’t he once, long ago, heard of be­zoars? Hadn’t Snape men­tioned them in their first ev­er Po­tions les­son? ‘A stone tak­en from the stom­ach of a goat, which will pro­tect from most poi­sons.’

It was not an an­swer to the Gol­palott prob­lem, and had Snape still been their teach­er, Har­ry would not have dared do it, but this was a mo­ment for des­per­ate mea­sures. He has­tened to­wards the store cup­board and rum­maged with­in it, push­ing aside uni­corn horns and tan­gles of dried herbs un­til he found, at the very back, a small card box on which had been scrib­bled the word ‘Be­zoars’.

He opened the box just as Slughorn called, Two min­utes left, ev­ery­one!’ In­side were half a dozen shriv­elled brown ob­jects, look­ing more like driedup kid­neys than re­al stones. Har­ry seized one, put the box back in the cup­board and hur­ried back to his caul­dron.

‘Time’s … UP!’ called Slughorn ge­nial­ly. ‘Well, let’s see how you’ve done! Blaise … what have you got for me?’

Slow­ly, Slughorn moved around the room, ex­am­in­ing the var­ious an­ti­dotes. No­body had fin­ished the task, al­though Hermione was try­ing to cram a few more in­gre­di­ents in­to her bot­tle be­fore Slughorn reached her. Ron had giv­en up com­plete­ly, and was mere­ly try­ing to avoid breath­ing in the pu­trid fumes is­su­ing from his caul­dron. Har­ry stood there wait­ing, the be­zoar clutched in a slight­ly sweaty hand.

Slughorn reached their ta­ble last. He sniffed Ernie’s po­tion and passed on to Ron’s with a gri­mace. He did not linger over Ron’s caul­dron, but backed away swift­ly, retch­ing slight­ly.

‘And you, Har­ry,’ he said. ‘What have you got to show me?’

Har­ry held out his hand, the be­zoar sit­ting on his palm.

Slughorn looked down at it for a full ten sec­onds. Har­ry won­dered, for a mo­ment, whether he was go­ing to shout at him. Then he threw back his head and roared with laugh­ter.

‘You’ve got a nerve, boy!’ he boomed, tak­ing the be­zoar and hold­ing it up so that the class could see it. ‘Oh, you’re like your moth­er … well, 1 can’t fault you … a be­zoar would cer­tain­ly act as an an­ti­dote to all these po­tions!’

Hermione, who was sweaty­faced and had soot on her nose, looked livid. Her half­fin­ished an­ti­dote, com­pris­ing fiftyt­wo in­gre­di­ents in­clud­ing a chunk of her own hair,

bub­bled slug­gish­ly be­hind Slughorn, who had eyes for no­body but Har­ry.

‘And you thought of a be­zoar all by your­self, did you, Har­ry?’ she asked through grit­ted teeth.

That’s the in­di­vid­ual spir­it a re­al po­tion­mak­er needs!’ said Slughorn hap­pi­ly, be­fore Har­ry could re­ply. ‘Just like his moth­er, she had the same in­tu­itive grasp of po­tion­mak­ing, it’s un­doubt­ed­ly from Lily he gets it … yes, Har­ry, yes, if you’ve got a be­zoar to hand, of course that would do the trick … al­though as they don’t work on ev­ery­thing, and are pret­ty rare, it’s still worth know­ing how to mix an­ti­dotes …’

The on­ly per­son in the room look­ing an­gri­er than Hermione was Mal­foy, who, Har­ry was pleased to see, had spilled some­thing that looked like cat sick over him­self. Be­fore ei­ther of them could ex­press their fury that Har­ry had come top of the class by not do­ing any work, how­ev­er, the bell rang.

Time to pack up!’ said Slughorn. ‘And an ex­tra ten points to Gryffind­or for sheer cheek!’

Still chuck­ling, he wad­dled back to his desk at the front of the dun­geon.

Har­ry daw­dled be­hind, tak­ing an in­or­di­nate amount of time to do up his bag. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione wished him luck as they left; both looked rather an­noyed. At last Har­ry and Slughorn were the on­ly two left in the room.

‘Come on, now, Har­ry, you’ll be late for your next les­son,’ said Slughorn af­fa­bly, snap­ping the gold clasps shut on his drag­on­skin brief­case.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry, re­mind­ing him­self ir­re­sistibly of Volde­mort, ‘1 want­ed to ask you some­thing.’

‘Ask away, then, my dear boy, ask away …”

‘Sir, 1 won­dered what you know about … about Hor­crux­es?’

Slughorn froze. His round face seemed to sink in up­on it­self. He licked his lips and said hoarse­ly, ‘What did you say?’ ‘I asked whether you know any­thing about Hor­crux­es, sir. You see -’

‘Dum­ble­dore put you up to this,’ whis­pered Slughorn.

His voice had changed com­plete­ly. It was not ge­nial any more, but shocked, ter­ri­fied. He fum­bled in his breast pock­et and pulled out a hand­ker­chief, mop­ping his sweat­ing brow.

‘Dum­ble­dore’s shown you that - that mem­ory,’ said Slughorn. ‘Well? Hasn’t he?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, de­cid­ing on the spot that it was best not to lie.

‘Yes, of course,’ said Slughorn qui­et­ly, still dab­bing at his white face. ‘Of course … well, if you’ve seen that mem­ory, Har­ry, you’ll know that I don’t know any­thing - any­thing -he re­peat­ed the word force­ful­ly ‘- about Hor­crux­es.’

He seized his drag­on­skin brief­case, stuffed his hand­ker­chief back in­to his pock­et and marched to the dun­geon door.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, ‘I just thought there might be a bit more to the mem­ory -’

‘Did you?’ said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren’t you? WRONG!’

He bel­lowed the last word and, be­fore Har­ry could say an­oth­er word, slammed the dun­geon door be­hind him.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view Hermione was still seething at the way Har­ry had tri­umphed with­out do­ing the work prop­er­ly. Ron was re­sent­ful that Har­ry hadn’t slipped him a be­zoar, too.

‘It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!’ said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. ‘Look, I had to try and soft­en him up so I could ask him about Volde­mort, didn’t I? Oh, will you gel a grip!’ he added in ex­as­per­ation, as Ron winced at the sound of the name.

In­fu­ri­at­ed by his fail­ure and by Ron and Hermione’s at­ti-

tudes, Har­ry brood­ed for the next few days over what to do next about Slughorn. He de­cid­ed that, for the time be­ing, he would let Slughorn think that he had for­got­ten all about Hor­crux­es; it was sure­ly best to lull him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack.

When Har­ry did noi ques­tion Slughorn again, the Po­tions mas­ter re­vert­ed to his usu­al af­fec­tion­ate treat­ment of him, and ap­peared to have put the mat­ter from his mind. Har­ry await­ed an in­vi­ta­tion to one of his lit­tle evening par­ties, de­ter­mined to ac­cept this time, even if he had to resched­ule Quid­ditch prac­ tice. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, no such in­vi­ta­tion ar­rived. Har­ry checked with Hermione and Gin­ny: nei­ther of them had re­ceived an in­vi­ta­tion and nor, as far as they knew, had any­body else. Har­ry could not help won­der­ing whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as for­get­ful as he ap­peared, sim­ply de­ter­mined to give Har­ry no ad­di­tion­al op­por­tu­ni­ties to ques­tion him.

Mean­while, the Hog­warts li­brary had failed Hermione for the first lime in liv­ing mem­ory. She was so shocked, she even for­got that she was an­noyed at Har­ry for his trick with the be­zoar,

‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do!” she told him. ‘Not a sin­gle one! I’ve been right through the re­strict­ed sec­tion and even in the most hor­ri­ble books, where they tell you how to brew the most grue­some po­tions -noth­ing! All I could find was this, in the in­tro­duci­ion to Mag­ick Mostc Evilc — lis­ten — “of the Hor­crux, wickedest of mag­ical in­ven­tions, we shall not speak nor give di­rec­tion” … 1 mean, why men­tion it, then?’ she said im­pa­tient­ly, slam­ming the old book shut; it let out a ghost­ly wail. ‘Oh, shut up,’ she snapped, stuff­ing it back in­to her bag. ‘I asked whether you know any­thing about Hor­crux­es, sir. You see -

‘Dum­ble­dore put you up to this,’ whis­pered Slughorn,

His voice had changed com­plete­ly. It was not ge­nial any more, but shocked, ter­ri­fied. He fum­bled in his breast pock­et and pulled out a hand­ker­chief, mop­ping his sweat­ing brow.

‘Dum­ble­dore’s shown you that — that mem­ory,’ said Slughorn. ‘Well? Hasn’t he?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, de­cid­ing on the spot that it was best not to lie.

‘Yes, of course,’ said Slughorn qui­et­ly, still dab­bing at his white face. ‘Of course … well, if you’ve seen that mem­ory, Har­ry, you’ll know that I don’t know any­thing - any­thing -he re­peat­ed the word force­ful­ly ‘- about Hor­crux­es.’

He seized his drag­on­skin brief­case, stuffed his hand­ker­chief back in­to his pock­et and marched to the dun­geon door.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, ‘1 just thought there might be a

‘Did you?’ said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren’t you? WRONG!’

He bel­lowed the last word and, be­fore Har­ry could say an­oth­er word, slammed the dun­geon door be­hind him.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view. Hermione was still seething at the way Har­ry had tri­umphed with­out do­ing the work prop­er­ly. Ron was re­sent­ful that Har­ry hadn’t slipped him a be­zoar, too.

‘It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!’ said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. ‘Look, 1 had to try and soft­en him up so 1 could ask him about Volde­mort, didn’t I? Oh, will you get a grip!’ he added in ex­as­per­ation, as Ron winced at the sound of

In­fu­ri­at­ed by his fail­ure and by Ron and Hermione’s at­ti-

tudes, Har­ry brood­ed for the next few days over what to do next about Slughorn. He de­cid­ed that, for the time be­ing, he would let Slughorn think that he had for­got­ten all about Hor­crux­es; it was sure­ly best to lull him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack.

When Har­ry did not ques­tion Slughorn again, the Po­tions mas­ter re­vert­ed to his usu­al af­fec­tion­ate treat­ment of him, and ap­peared to have put the mat­ter from his mind. Har­ry await­ed an in­vi­ta­tion to one of his lit­tle evening par­ties, de­ter­mined to ac­cept this time, even if he had to resched­ule Quid­ditch prac­tice. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, no such in­vi­ta­tion ar­rived. Har­ry checked with Hermione and Gin­ny: nei­ther of them had re­ceived an in­vi­ta­tion and nor, as far as they knew, had any­body else. Har­ry could not help won­der­ing whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as for­get­ful as he ap­peared, sim­ply de­ter­mined to give Har­ry no ad­di­tion­al op­por­tu­ni­ties to ques­tion him.

Mean­while, the Hog­warts li­brary had failed Hermione for the first time in liv­ing mem­ory. She was so shocked, she even for­got that she was an­noyed at Har­ry for his trick with the be­zoar.

‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do!’ she told him. ‘Not a sin­gle one! I’ve been right through the re­strict­ed sec­tion and even in the most hor­ri­ble books, where they tell you how to brew the most grue­some po­tions -noth­ing! All I could find was this, in the in­tro­duc­tion to Mag­ick Moste Evile - lis­ten - “of the Hor­crux, wickedest of mag­ical in­ven­tions, we shall not speak nor give di­rec­tion” … I mean, why men­tion it, then?’ she said im­pa­tient­ly, slam­ming the old book shut; it let out a ghost­ly wail. ‘Oh, shut up,’ she snapped, stuff­ing it back in­to her bag.

The snow melt­ed around the school as Febru­ary ar­rived, to be re­placed by cold, drea­ry wet­ness. Pur­plish­grey clouds hung low over the cas­tle and a con­stant fall of chilly rain made the lawns slip­pery and mud­dy. The up­shot of this was that the six­thyears’ first Ap­pari­tion les­son, which was sched­uled for a Sat­ur­day morn­ing so that no nor­mal lessons would be missed, took place in the Great Hall in­stead of in the grounds.

When Har­ry and Hermione ar­rived in the Hall (Ron had come down with Laven­der) they found that the ta­bles had dis­ap­peared. Rain lashed against the high win­dows and the en­chant­ed ceil­ing swirled dark­ly above them as they as­sem­bled in front of Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Snape, Flitwick and Sprout - the Heads of House - and a small wiz­ard whom Har­ry took to be the Ap­pari­tion In­struc­tor from the Min­istry. He was odd­ly colour­less, with trans­par­ent eye­lash­es, wispy hair and an in­sub­stan­tial air, as though a sin­gle gust of wind might blow him away. Har­ry won­dered whether con­stant dis­ap­pear­an­ces and reap­pear­an­ces had some­how di­min­ished his sub­stance, or whether this frail build was ide­al for any­one wish­ing to van­ish.

‘Good morn­ing,’ said the Min­istry wiz­ard, when all the stu­dents had ar­rived and the Heads of House had called for qui­et. ‘My name is Wilkie Twycross and I shall be your Min­istryAp­pari­tion In­struc­tor for the next twelve weeks. 1 hope to be able to pre­pare you for your Ap­pari­tion test in this time -’

‘Mal­foy, be qui­et and pay at­ten­tion!’ barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Ev­ery­body looked round. Mal­foy had flushed a dull pink; he looked fu­ri­ous as he stepped away from Crabbe, with whom he ap­peared to have been hav­ing a whis­pered ar­gu­ment. Har­ry glanced quick­ly at Snape, who al­so looked an­noyed, though Har­ry strong­ly sus­pect­ed that this was less be­cause of Mal­foy’s rude­ness than the fact that McG­ona­gall had rep­ri­mand­ed one of his house.

‘- by which time, many of you may be ready to take your test,’ Twycross con­tin­ued, as though there had been no in­ter­rup­tion.

‘As you may know, it is usu­al­ly im­pos­si­ble to Ap­pa­rate or Dis­ap­pa­rate with­in Hog­warts. The Head­mas­ter has lift­ed this en­chant­ment, pure­ly with­in the Great Hall, for one hour, so as to en­able you to prac­tise. May I em­pha­sise that you will not be able to Ap­pa­rate out­side the walls of this Hall, and that you would be un­wise to try.

‘I would like each of you to place your­selves now so that you have a clear five feet of space in front of you.’

There was a great scram­bi­ing and jostling as peo­ple sep­ar­at­ed, banged in­to each oth­er, and or­dered oth­ers out of their space. The Heads of House moved among the stu­dents, mar­shalling them in­to po­si­tion and break­ing up ar­gu­ments.

‘Har­ry, where are you go­ing? 1 de­mand­ed Hermione.

But Har­ry did not an­swer; he was mov­ing quick­ly through the crowd, past the place where Pro­fes­sor Flitwick was mak­ing squeaky at­tempts to po­si­tion a few Raven­claws, all of whom want­ed to be near the front, past Pro­fes­sor Sprout, who was chivvy­ing the Huf­flepuffs in­to line, un­til, by dodg­ing around Ernie Macmil­lan, he man­aged to po­si­tion him­self right at the back of the crowd, di­rect­ly be­hind Mal­foy, who was tak­ing ad­van­tage of the gen­er­al up­heaval to con­tin­ue his ar­gu­ment with Crabbe, stand­ing five feet away and look­ing mu­ti­nous.

‘I don’t know how much longer, all right?’ Mal­foy shot at him, obliv­ious to Har­ry stand­ing right be­hind him. ‘It’s tak­ing longer than I thought it would.’

Crabbe opened his mouth, but Mal­foy ap­peared to sec­ondguess what he was go­ing to say.

‘Look, it’s none of your busi­ness what I’m do­ing, Crabbe, you and Goyle just do as you’re told and keep a look­out!’

‘! tell my friends what I’m up to, if I want them to keep a look­out for me,” Har­ry said, just loud enough for Mal­foy to hear him.

Mal­foy spun round on the spot, his hand fly­ing to his wand, but at thai pre­cise mo­ment the four Heads of House shout­ed, ‘Qui­et!’ and si­lence fell again. Mal­foy turned slow­ly to face the front.

Thank you,’ said Twycross. :Now then …’

He waved his wand. Old­fash­ioned wood­en hoops in­stant­ly ap­peared on the floor in from of ev­ery stu­dent.

The im­por­tant things to re­mem­ber when Ap­pa­rat­ing are the three Ds!’ said Twycross. ‘Des­ti­na­tion, De­ter­mi­na­tion, De­lib­er­ation!

‘Step one: fix your mind firm­ly up­on the de­sired des­tin­ation,’ said Twycross. ‘In this case, the in­te­ri­or of your hoop. Kind­ly con­cen­trate up­on that des­ti­na­tion now.’

Ev­ery­body looked around furtive­ly, to check that ev­ery­one else was star­ing in­to their hoop, then hasti­ly did as they were told. Har­ry gazed at the cir­cu­lar patch of dusty floor en­closed by his hoop and tried hard to think of noth­ing else. This proved im­pos­si­ble, as he couldn’t stop puz­zling over what Mal­foy was do­ing that need­ed look­outs.

“Step two,’ said Twycross, ‘fo­cus your de­ter­mi­na­tion to oc­cu­py the vi­su­alised space! Let your yearn­ing to en­ter it flood from your mind to ev­ery par­ti­cle of your body!’

Har­ry glanced around sur­rep­ti­tious­ly. A lit­tle way to his left, Ernie Macmil­lan was con­tem­plat­ing his hoop so hard that his face had turned pink; it looked as though he was strain­ing to lay a Quaf­fle­sized egg. Har­ry bit back a laugh and hasti­ly re­turned his gaze to his own hoop.

‘Step three,’ called Twycross, ‘and on­ly when 1 give the com­mand … lum on the spot, feei­ing your way in­to noth­ing­ness, mov­ing with de­lib­er­ation 1. On my com­mand, now … one- 1

Har­ry glanced around again; lots of peo­ple were look­ing pos­itive­ly alarmed at be­ing asked to Ap­pa­rate so quick­ly.

Har­ry tried to fix his thoughts on his hoop again; he had al­ready for­got­ten what the three Ds stood for.

: - THREE!’

Har­ry spun on the spot, lost his bal­an­ce and near­ly fell over. He was not the on­ly one. The whole Hall was sud­den­ly full of stag­ger­ing peo­ple; Neville was flat on his back; Ernie Macmil­lan, on the oth­er hand, had done a kind of pirou­et­ting leap in­to his hoop and looked mo­men­tar­ily thrilled, un­til he caught sight of Dean Thomas roar­ing with laugh­ter at him.

‘Nev­er mind, nev­er mind,’ said Twycross dry­ly, who did not seem to have ex­pect­ed any­thing bet­ter. ‘Ad­just your hoops, please, and back to your orig­in­al po­si­tions …’

The sec­ond atlem.pt was no bet­ter than the first. The third was just as bad. Not un­til the fourth did any­thing ex­cit­ing hap­pen. There was a hor­ri­ble screech of pain and ev­ery­body looked around, ter­ri­fied, to see Su­san Bones of Huf­flepuff wob­bling in her hoop with her left leg still stand­ing five feet away where she had start­ed.

The Heads of House con­verged on her; there was a great bang and a puff of pur­ple smoke, which cleared to re­veal Su­san sob­bing, re­unit­ed with her leg but look­ing hor­ri­fied.

‘Sph’nch­ing, or the sep­ara­tion of ran­dom body parts,’ said Wilkie Twycross dis­pas­sion­ate­ly, ‘oc­curs when the mind is in­suf­fi­cient­ly de­ter­mined. You must con­cen­trate con­tin­ual­ly up­on your des­ti­na­tion, and move, with­out hasie, but with de­lib­er­ation … thus.’

Twycross stepped for­wards, turned grace­ful­ly on the spot with his arms out­stretched and van­ished in a swirl of robes, reap­pear­ing at the back of the Hall. ‘Re­mem­ber the three Ds,’ he said, ‘and try again … one -two - three -’

But an hour lat­er, Su­san’s Splinch­ing was still ihe most in­ter­est­ing thing that had hap­pened. Twycross did not seem dis­cour­aged. Fas­ten­ing his cloak at his neck, he mere­ly said, ‘Un­til next Sat­ur­day, ev­ery­body, and do not for­get: Des­tin­ation. De­ter­mi­na­tion. De­lib­er­ation.’

With that, he waved his wand, Van­ish­ing the hoops, and walked out of the Hall ac­com­pa­nied by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. Talk broke out at once as peo­ple be­gan mov­ing to­wards the En­trance Hall.

‘How did you do?’ asked Ron, hur­ry­ing to­wards Har­ry. ‘1 think 1 felt some­thing the last time I tried - a kind of tin­gling in my feet.’

‘1 ex­pect your train­ers are too small, Won­Won,’ said a voice be­hind them, and Hermione stalked past, smirk­ing.

‘1 didn’t feel any­thing,’ said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing this in­ter­rup­tion. “But 1 don’t care about that now-’

‘What d’you mean, you don’t care … don’t you want to leam to Ap­pa­rate?’ said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

‘I’m not fussed, re­al­ly. I pre­fer fly­ing,’ said Har­ry, glanc­ing over his shoul­der to see where Mal­foy was, and speed­ing up as they came in­to the En­trance Hall. ‘Look, hur­ry up, will you, there’s some­thing I want to do …’

Per­plexed, Ron fol­lowed Har­ry back to Gryffind­or Tow­er at a run. They were tem­po­rar­ily de­tained by Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth floor shut and was re­fus­ing to let any­one pass un­til they set fire to their own pants, but Har­ry and Ron sim­ply turned back and took one of their trust­ed short cuts. With­in five min­utes, they were climb­ing through the por­trait hole.

‘Are you go­ing to tell me what we’re do­ing, then?’ asked Ron, pant­ing slight­ly.

‘Up here,’ said Har­ry, and he crossed the com­mon room and led the way through the door to the boys’ stair­case.

Their dor­mi­to­ry was, as Ham’ had hoped, emp­ty. He flung open his trunk and be­gan to rum­mage in it, while Ron watched im­pa­tient­ly.

‘Har­ry …’

‘Mal­foy’s us­ing Crabbe and Goyle as look­outs. He was ar­gu­ing with Crabbe just now. 1 want to know … aha.’

He had found it, a fold­ed square of ap­par­ent­ly blank parch­ment, which he now smoothed out and tapped with [he tip of his wand.

‘I solemn!)’ swear that I am up to no good … or Mal­foy is,

At once, the Ma­raud­er’s Map ap­peared on the parch­ment’s sur­face. Here was a de­tailed plan of ev­ery one of the cas­tle’s floors and, mov­ing around it, the tiny, la­belled black dots that sig­ni­fied each of the cas­tle’s oc­cu­pants.

‘Help me find Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry ur­gent­ly.

He laid the map up­on his bed and he and Ron leaned over it, search­ing.

‘There!’ said Ron, af­ter a minute or so. ‘He’s in the Slytherin com­mon room, look … with Parkin­son and Zabi­ni and Crabbe and Goyle …”

Har­ry looked down at the map, dis­ap­point­ed, but ral­lied al­most at once.

‘Well, I’m keep­ing an eye on him from now on,’ he said firm­ly. ‘And the mo­ment 1 see him lurk­ing some­where with Crabbe and Goyle keep­ing watch out­side, it’ll be on with the old In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and off to find out what he’s-’

He broke off as Neville en­tered the dor­mi­to­ry, bring­ing with him a strong smell of singed ma­te­ri­al, and be­gan rum­mag­ing in his trunk for a fresh pair of pants.

De­spite his de­ter­mi­na­tion 10 catch Mal­foy out, Har­ry had no luck at all over the next cou­ple of weeks. Al­though he con­sult­ed the map as of­ten as he could, some­times mak­ing un­nec­es­sary vis­its to the bath­room be­tween lessons to search it, he did not once see Mal­foy any­where sus­pi­cious. Ad­mit­ted­ly, he spot­ted Crabbe and Goyle mov­ing around the cas­tle on their own more of­ten than usu­al, some­times re­main­ing sta­tion­ary in de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors, but at these times Mal­foy was not on­ly nowhere near them, but im­pos­si­ble to lo­cate on the map at all. This was most mys­te­ri­ous. Har­ry toyed with the pos­si­bil­ity that Mal­foy was ac­tu­al­ly leav­ing the school grounds, but could not see how he could be do­ing it, giv­en the very high leve! of se­cu­ri­ty now op­er­at­ing with­in the cas­tle. He could on­ly sup­pose ihat he was miss­ing Mal­foy amongst the hun­dreds of tiny black dots up­on the map. As for the fact that Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle ap­peared to be go­ing their dif­fer­ent ways when they were usu­al­ly in­sep­ara­ble, these things hap­pened as peo­ple got old­er - Ron and Hermione, Har­ry re­flect­ed sad­ly, were liv­ing proof.

Febru­ary moved to­wards March with no change in the weath­er ex­cept that it be­came windy as well as wet. To gen­er­al in­dig­na­tion, a sign went up on all com­mon­room no­tice­boards that the next trip in­to Hogsmeade had been can­celled. Ron was fu­ri­ous.

‘It was on my birth­day!’ he said, ‘i was look­ing for­ward to that!’

‘Not a big sur­prise, though, is it?’ said Har­ry. ‘Not af­ter what hap­pened to Katie.’

She had still not re­turned from Si Mun­go’s. What was more, fur­ther dis­ap­pear­an­ces had been re­port­ed in the Dai­ly Prophet, in­clud­ing sev­er­al rel­atives of stu­dents at Hog­warts.

‘But now all I’ve got to look for­ward to is stupid Ap­par­ition!’ said Ron grumpi­ly. ‘Big birth­day treat …’

Three lessons on, Ap­pari­tion was prov­ing as dif­fi­cult as

ev­er, though a few more peo­ple had man­aged to Splinch them­selves. Frus­tra­tion was run­ning high and there was a cer­tain amount of illfeel­ing to­wards Wilkie Twycross and his three Ds, which had in­spired a num­ber of nick­names for him, the po­litest of which were Dog­breath and Dung­head.

‘Hap­py birth­day, Ron,’ said Har­ry, when they were wo­ken on the first of March by Sea­mus and Dean leav­ing nois­ily for break­fast. ‘Have a present.’

He threw the pack­age across on to Ron’s bed, where it joined a small pile of them that must, Har­ry as­sumed, have been de­liv­ered by house­elves in the night.

‘Cheers,’ said Ron drowsi­ly, and as he ripped off the pa­per Har­ry got out of bed, opened his own crunk and be­gan rum­mag­ing in it for the Ma­raud­er’s Map, which he hid af­ter ev­ery use. He turfed out half the con­tents of his trunk be­fore he found it hid­ing be­neath the rolledup socks in which he was still keep­ing his bot­tle of lucky po­tion, Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

‘Right,’ he mur­mured, tak­ing it back to bed with him, tap­ping it qui­et­ly and mur­mur­ing, ‘I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good,’ so that Neville, who was pass­ing the foot of his bed at the time, would not hear.

‘Nice one, Har­ry!’ said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, wav­ing the new pair of Quid­ditch Keep­er’s gloves Har­ry had giv­en him.

‘No prob­lem,’ said Har­ry ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, as he searched the Slytherin dor­mi­to­ry close­ly for Mal­foy. ‘Hey … I don’t think he’s in his bed …’

Ron did not an­swer; he was too busy un­wrap­ping presents, ev­ery now and then let­ting out an ex­cla­ma­tion of plea­sure.

‘Se­ri­ous­ly good haul this year!’ he an­nounced, hold­ing up a heavy gold watch with odd sym­bols around the edge and tiny mov­ing stars in­stead of hands. ‘See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think I’ll come of age next year too …

‘Cool,’ mut­tered Har­ry, spar­ing the watch a glance be­fore peer­ing more close­ly at the map. Where was Mal­foy? He did not seem to be at the Slytherin ta­ble in the Great Hall, eat­ing break­fast … he was nowhere near Snape, who was sit­ting in his study … he wasn’t in any of the bath­rooms or in the hos­pi­tal wing …

‘Want one? 1 said Ron thick­ly, hold­ing out a box of Choco­late Caul­drons.

‘No thanks,’ said Har­ry, look­ing up. ‘Mal­foy’s gone again!’

‘Can’t have done,’ said Ron, stuff­ing a sec­ond Caul­dron in­to his mouth as he slid out of bed to get dressed. ‘Come on. if you don’t hur­ry up you’ll have to Ap­pa­rate on an emp­tys­tom­ach … might make it eas­ier, 1 sup­pose …”

Ron looked thought­ful­ly ai the box of Choco­late Caul­drons, then shrugged and helped him­self to a third.

Har­ry tapped the map with his wand, mut­tered, ‘Mis­chief man­aged,’ though it hadn’t been, and got dressed, think­ing hard. There had to be an ex­pla­na­tion for Mal­foy’s pe­ri­od­ic dis­ap­pear­an­ces, but he sim­ply could not think what it could be. The best way of find­ing out would be to tail him, bur even with the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak this was an im­prac­ti­cal idea; he had lessons, Quid­ditch prac­tice, home­work and Ap­pari­tion; he could not fol­low Mal­foy around school all day wil­hout his ab­sence be­ing re­marked up­on,

‘Ready?’ he said to Ron.

He was halfway to the dor­mi­to­ry door when he re­alised that Ron had not moved, but was lean­ing on his bed­post, star­ing out of the rain­washed win­dow with a strange­ly un­fo­cused look on his face.

‘Ron? Break­fast.’

‘I’m not hun­gry,’

Har­ry stared ai him.

‘I thought you just said -?’

-Well, all right, I’ll come down with you,’ sighed Ron, ‘but I don’t want to eat.’

Har­ry scru­ti­nised him sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘You’ve just eat­en half a box of Choco­late Caul­drons, haven’t you?’

‘It’s not that,’ Ron sighed again. ‘You … you wouldn’t un­der­stand.’

‘Fair enough,’ said Har­ry, al­beit puz­zled, as he turned to open the door.

‘Har­ry!’ said Ron sud­den­ly.

‘What?’

‘Har­ry, I can’t stand it!’

‘You can’t stand what?’ asked Har­ry, now star­ling to feel def­inite­ly alarmed. Ron was rather pale and looked as though he was about to be sick.

‘I can’t stop think­ing about her!’ said Ron hoarse­ly.

Har­ry gaped at him. He had not ex­pect­ed this and was not sure he want­ed to hear it. Friends they might be, but if Ron start­ed call­ing Laven­der ‘LavLav’, he would have to pui his foot down.

‘Why does that stop you hav­ing break­fast?’ Har­ry asked, try­ing to in­ject a note of com­mon sense in­to the pro­ceed­in­gs.

‘I don’t think she knows I ex­ist,’ said Ron with a des­per­ate ges­ture.

‘She def­inite­ly knows you ex­ist,’ said Har­ry, be­wil­dered. ‘She keeps snog­ging you, doesn’t she?’

Ron blinked.

‘Who are you talk­ing about?’

Who are you talk­ing about?’ said Har­ry, with an in­creas­ing sense that all rea­son had dropped out of the con­ver­sa­tion.

‘Romil­da Vane,’ said Ron soft­ly, and his whole face seemed to il­lu­mi­nate as he said it, as though hit by a ray of purest sun­light. They stared at each oth­er for al­most a whole minute, be­fore Har­ry said, ‘This is a joke, right? You’re jok­ing.’

T think … Har­ry, 1 ihink I love her,’ said Ron in a stran­gled voice.

‘OK,’ said Har­ry, walk­ing up to Ron 10 get a bet­ter look at the glazed eyes and the pal­lid com­plex­ion, ‘OK … say that again with a straight face.’

‘I love her,’ re­peat­ed Ron breath­less­ly. ‘Have you seen her hair, it’s all black and shiny and silky … and her eyes? Her big dark eyes? And her -’

‘This is re­al­ly fun­ny and ev­ery­thing,’ said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, ‘but joke’s over, all right? Drop it.’

He turned to leave; he had got two steps to­wards the door when a crash­ing blow hit him on the right ear. Stag­ger­ing, he looked round. Ron’s fist was drawn right back, his face was con­tort­ed with rage; he was about to strike again.

Har­ry re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly; his wand was out of his pock­et and the in­can­ta­tion sprang to mind with­out con­scious thought: Le\icor­pus!

Ron yelled as his heel was wrenched up­wards once more; he dan­gled help­less­ly, up­side­down, his robes hang­ing off him.

‘What was that for?’ Har­ry bel­lowed.

‘You in­sult­ed her, Har­ry! You said it was a joke!’ shout­ed Ron, who was slow­ly turn­ing pur­ple in the face as all the blood rushed to his head.

‘This is in­sane!’ said Har­ry. ‘What’s got in­to -?’

And then he saw the box ly­ing open on Ron’s bed and the truth hit him with the force of a stam­ped­ing troll.

‘Where did you get those Choco­late Caul­drons?’

‘They were a birth­day present!’ shout­ed Ron, re­volv­ing slow­ly in midair as he strug­gled to get free. ‘1 of­fered you one, didn’t 1?’

‘You just picked them up off the floor, didn’t you?’

‘They’d fall­en off my bed, all right? Let me go!’

‘They didn’t fall off your bed, you prat, don’t you un­der­stand? They were mine, 1 chucked them out of my trunk when 1 was look­ing for the map. They’re the Choco­late Caul­drons Romil­da gave me be­fore Christ­mas and they’re all spiked with love po­tion!’

But on­ly one word of this seemed to have reg­is­tered with Ron.

‘Romil­da?’ he re­peat­ed. ‘Did you say Romil­da? Har­ry - do you know her? Can you in­tro­duce me?’

Har­ry stared at the dan­gling Ron, whose face now looked tremen­dous­ly hope­ful, and fought a strong de­sire to laugh. A part of him - the part clos­est to his throb­bing right ear - was quite keen on the idea of let­ting Ron down and watch­ing him run amok un­til the ef­fects of the po­tion wore off … but on the oth­er hand, they were sup­posed to be friends, Ron had not been him­self when he had at­tacked, and Har­ry- thought that he would de­serve an­oth­er punch­ing if he per­mit­ted Ron to de­clare undy­ing love for Romil­da Vane.

‘Yeah, I’ll in­tro­duce you,’ said Har­ry, think­ing fast. ‘I’m go­ing to let you down now, OK?’

He sent Ron crash­ing back to the floor (his ear did hurt quite a lot), but Ron sim­ply bound­ed to his feet again, grin­ning.

‘She’ll be in Slughorn’s of­fice, 1 said Har­ry con­fi­dent­ly, lead­ing the way to the door.

‘Why will she be in there?’ asked Ron anx­ious­ly, hur­ry­ing to keep up.

‘Oh, she has ex­tra Po­tions lessons with him,’ said Har­ry, in­vent­ing wild­ly.

‘Maybe 1 could ask if 1 can have them with her?’ said Ron ea­ger­ly.

‘Great idea,’ said Har­ry. Laven­der was wait­ing be­side the por­trait hole, a com­pli­ca­tion Har­ry had not fore­seen.

‘You’re lace, Won­Won!’ she pout­ed. ‘I’ve got you a birth­day-’

‘Leave me alone,’ said Ron im­pa­tient­ly, ‘Har­ry’s go­ing to in­tro­duce me to Romil­da Vane.’

And with­out an­oth­er word to her, he pushed his way oui of the por­trait hole. Har­ry tried to make an apo­lo­get­ic face to Laven­der, but it might have turned out sim­ply amused, be­cause she looked more of­fend­ed than ev­er as the Fat La­dy swung shut be­hind them.

Har­ry had been slight­ly wor­ried that Slughorn might be at break­fast, but he an­swered his of­fice door at the first knock, wear­ing a green vel­vet dress­ing­gown and match­ing night­cap and look­ing rather blearyeyed.

‘Har­ry,’ he mum­bled. ‘This is very ear­ly for a call … I gen­er­al­ly sleep late on a Sat­ur­day …”

‘Pro­fes­sor, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry to dis­turb you,’ said Har­ry as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, while Ron stood on tip­toe, at­tempt­ing to see past Slughorn in­to his room, ‘but my friend Ron’s sw­al­lowed a love po­tion by mis­take. You couldn’t make him an an­ti­dote, could you? I’d take him to Madam Pom­frey, but we’re not sup­posed to have any­thing from Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes and, you know … awk­ward ques­tions …’

Td have thought you could have whipped him up a rem­edy, Har­ry, an ex­pert po­tion­eer like you?’ asked Slughorn. ‘Er,’ said Har­ry, some­what dis­tract­ed by the fact that Ron was now el­bow­ing him in the ribs in an at­tempt to force his way in­to the room, ‘well, I’ve nev­er mixed an an­ti­dote for a love po­tion, sir, and by the time I get it right Ron might’ve done some­thing se­ri­ous -’

Help­ful­ly, Ron chose this mo­ment to moan, ‘I can’t see her. Har­ry - is he hid­ing her?’

‘Was this po­tion with­in date?’ asked Slughorn, now eye­ing Ron with pro­fes­sion­al in­ter­est. ‘They can strength­en, you know, the longer they’re kept.’

That would ex­plain a lot,’ pant­ed Har­ry, now pos­itive­ly wrestling with Ron to keep him from knock­ing Slughorn over. ‘It’s his birth­day, Pro­fes­sor,’ he added im­plor­ing­ly.

‘Oh, all right, come in, then, come in,’ said Slughorn, re­lent­ing. ‘I’ve got the nec­es­sary here in my bag, it’s not a dif­fi­cult an­ti­dote …’

Ron burst through the door in­to Slughorn’s over­heat­ed, crowd­ed study, tripped over a tas­sell­ed foot­stool, re­gained his bal­an­ce by seiz­ing Har­ry around the neck and mut­tered, ‘She didn’t see that, did she?’

‘She’s not here yet,’ said Har­ry, watch­ing Slughorn open­ing his po­tion kit and adding a few pinch­es of this and that to a small crys­tal bot­tle.

That’s good,’ said Ron fer­vent­ly. ‘How do I look?’

‘Very hand­some,’ said Slughorn smooth­ly, hand­ing Ron a glass of clear liq­uid. ‘Now drink that up, it’s a ton­ic for the nerves, keep you calm when she ar­rives, you know,’

‘Bril­liant,’ said Ron ea­ger­ly, and he gulped the an­ti­dote down nois­ily.

Har­ry and Slughorn watched him. For a mo­ment, Ron beamed at them. Then, very slow­ly, his grin sagged and van­ished, to be re­placed by an ex­pres­sion of ut­most hor­ror.

‘Back to nor­mal, then?’ said Har­ry, grin­ning. Slughorn chuck­led. Thanks a lot, Pro­fes­sor.’

‘Don’t men­tion it, m’boy, don’t men­tion it,’ said Slughorn, as Ron col­lapsed in­to a near­by arm­chair, look­ing dev­as­tat­ed. ‘Pick­me­up, that’s what he needs,’ Slughorn con­tin­ued, now­bustling over to a ta­ble load­ed with drinks. ‘I’ve got But­ter­beer, I’ve got wine, I’ve got one last bot­tle of this oak­ma­tured mead … hmm … meant to give that to Dum­ble­dore for

Christ­mas … ah well …’ he shrugged ‘… he can’t miss what he’s nev­er had! Why don’t we open it now and cel­ebrate Mr Weasley’s birth­day? Noth­ing like a fine spir­it to chase away the pangs of dis­ap­point­ed love …’

He chor­tled again and Har­ry joined in. This was the fir­si time he had found him­self al­most alone with Slughorn since his dis­as­trous first at­tempt to ex­tract the true mem­ory from him. Per­haps, if he could just keep Slughorn in a good mood … per­haps if they got through enough of the oak­ma­tured mead …

There you are, then,’ said Slughorn, hand­ing Har­ry and Ron a glass of mead each, be­fore rais­ing his own. ‘Well, a very hap­py birth­day, Ralph -’

‘- Ron -’ whis­pered Har­ry.

But Ron, who did not ap­pear to be lis­ten­ing to the toast, had al­ready thrown the mead in­to his mouth and sw­al­lowed it.

There was one sec­ond, hard­ly more than a heart­beat, in which Har­ry knew there was some­thing ter­ri­bly wrong and Slughorn, it seemed, did not.

‘- and may you have many more -

‘Ron!’

Ron had dropped his glass; he hal­frose from his chair and then crum­pled, his ex­trem­ities jerk­ing un­con­trol­lably. Foam was drib­bling from his mouth and his eyes were bulging from their sock­ets.

‘Pro­fes­sor!’ Har­ry bel­lowed. ‘Do some­thing]’

But Slughorn seemed par­al­ysed by shock. Ron twitched and choked: his skin was turn­ing blue.

‘What - but -’ splut­tered Slughorn.

Har­ry leapt over a low ta­ble and sprint­ed to­wards Slughorn’s open po­tion kit, pulling out jars and pouch­es, while the ter­ri­ble sound of Ron’s gar­gling breath filled the room. Then

he found it - the shriv­elled kid­ney­like stone Slughorn had tak­en from him in Po­tions.

He hur­tled back to Ron’s side, wrenched open his jaw and thrust the be­zoar in­to his mouth. Ron gave a great shud­der, a rat­tling gasp and his body be­came limp and still.





