Chapter 2: Spinner’s End


Many miles away the chilly mist that had pressed against the Prime Min­is­ter’s win­dows drift­ed over a dirty riv­er that wound be­tween over­grown, rub­bish­strewn banks. An im­mense chim­ney, rel­ic of a dis­used mill, reared up, shad­owy and omi­nous. There was no sound apart from the whis­per of the black wa­ter and no sign of life apart from a scrawny fox that had slunk down the bank to nose hope­ful­ly at some old fis­hand­chip wrap­pings in the tall grass.

But then, with a very faint pop, a slim, hood­ed fig­ure ap­peared out of thin air on the edge of the riv­er. The fox froze, wary eyes fixed up­on this strange new phe­nomenon. The fig­ure seemed to take its bear­in­gs for a few mo­ments, then set off with light, quick strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass.

With a sec­ond and loud­er pop, an­oth­er hood­ed fig­ure ma­te­ri­al­ized.

“Wait!”

The harsh cry star­tled the fox, now crouch­ing al­most flat in the un­der­growth. It leapt from its hid­ing place and up the bank. There was a flash of green light, a yelp, and the fox fell back to the ground, dead.

The sec­ond fig­ure turned over the an­imal with its toe.

“Just a fox,” said a wom­an’s voice dis­mis­sive­ly from un­der the hood. “I thought per­haps an Au­ror–Cis­sy, wait!”

But her quar­ry, who had paused and looked back at the flash of light, was al­ready scram­bling up the bank the fox had just fall­en down.

“Cis­sy–Nar­cis­sa–lis­ten to me–“

The sec­ond wom­an caught the first and seized her arm, but the oth­er wrenched it away.

“Go back, Bel­la!”

“You must lis­ten to me!”

“I’ve lis­tened al­ready. I’ve made my de­ci­sion. Leave me alone!”

The wom­an named Nar­cis­sa gained the top of the bank, where a line of old rail­in­gs sep­arat­ed the riv­er from a nar­row, cob­bled street. The oth­er wom­an, Bel­la, fol­lowed at once. Side by side they stood look­ing across the road at the rows and rows of di­lap­idat­ed brick hous­es, their win­dows dull and blind in the dark­ness.

“He lives here?” asked Bel­la in a voice of con­tempt. “Here? In this Mug­gle dunghill? We must be the first of our kind ev­er to set foot–“

But Nar­cis­sa was not lis­ten­ing; she had slipped through a gap in the rusty rail­in­gs and was al­ready hur­ry­ing across the road.

“Cis­sy, waitl”

Bel­la fol­lowed, her cloak stream­ing be­hind, and saw Nar­cis­sa dart­ing through an al­ley be­tween the hous­es in­to a sec­ond, al­most iden­ti­cal street. Some of the street­lamps were bro­ken; the two wom­en were run­ning be­tween patch­es of light and deep dark­ness. The pur­suer caught up with her prey just as she turned an­oth­er cor­ner, this time suc­ceed­ing in catch­ing hold of her arm and swing­ing her around so that they faced each oth­er.

“Cis­sy, you must not do this, you can’t trust him–“

“The Dark Lord trusts him, doesn’t he?”

“The Dark Lord is… I be­lieve… mis­tak­en,” Bel­la pant­ed, and her eyes gleamed mo­men­tar­ily un­der her hood as she looked around to check that they were in­deed alone. “In any case, we were told not to speak of the plan to any­one. This is a be­tray­al of the Dark Lord’s–“

“Let go, Bel­la!” snarled Nar­cis­sa, and she drew a wand from be­neath her cloak, hold­ing it threat­en­ing­ly in the oth­er’s face. Bel­la mere­ly laughed.

“Cis­sy, your own sis­ter? You wouldn’t–“

“There is noth­ing I wouldn’t do any­more!” Nar­cis­sa breathed, a note of hys­te­ria in her voice, and as she brought down the wand like a knife, there was an­oth­er flash of light. Bel­la let go of her sis­ter’s arm as though burned.

“Nar­cis­sa!”

But Nar­cis­sa had rushed ahead. Rub­bing her hand, her pur­suer fol­lowed again, keep­ing her dis­tance now, as they moved deep­er in­to the de­sert­ed labyrinth of brick hous­es. At last, Nar­cis­sa hur­ried up a street named Spin­ner’s End, over which the tow­er­ing mill chim­ney seemed to hov­er like a gi­ant ad­mon­ito­ry fin­ger. Her foot­steps echoed on the cob­bles as she passed board­ed and bro­ken win­dows, un­til she reached the very last house, where a dim light glim­mered through the cur­tains in a down­stairs room.

She had knocked on the door be­fore Bel­la, curs­ing un­der her breath, had caught up. To­geth­er they stood wait­ing, pant­ing slight­ly, breath­ing in the smell of the dirty riv­er that was car­ried to them on the night breeze. Af­ter a few sec­onds, they heard move­ment be­hind the door and it opened a crack. A sliv­er of a man could be seen look­ing out at them, a man with long black hair part­ed in cur­tains around a sal­low face and black eyes.

Nar­cis­sa threw back her hood. She was so pale that she seemed to shine in the dark­ness; the long blonde hair stream­ing down her back gave her the look of a drowned per­son.

“Nar­cis­sa!” said the man, open­ing the door a lit­tle wider, so that the light fell up­on her and her sis­ter too. “What a pleas­ant sur­prise!

“Severus,” she said in a strained whis­per. “May I speak to you? It’s ur­gent.”

“But of course.”

He stood back to al­low her to pass him in­to the house. Her still­hood­ed sis­ter fol­lowed with­out in­vi­ta­tion.

“Snape,” she said curt­ly as she passed him.

“Bel­la­trix,” he replied, his thin mouth curl­ing in­to a slight­ly mock­ing smile as he closed the door with a snap be­hind them.

They had stepped di­rect­ly in­to a tiny sit­ting room, which had the feel­ing of a dark, padded cell. The walls were com­plete­ly cov­ered in books, most of them bound in old black or brown leather; a thread­bare so­fa, an old arm­chair, and a rick­ety ta­ble stood grouped to­geth­er in a pool of dim light cast by a can­dle­filled lamp hung from the ceil­ing. The place had an air of ne­glect, as though it was not usu­al­ly in­hab­it­ed.

Snape ges­tured Nar­cis­sa to the so­fa. She threw off her cloak, cast it aside, and sat down, star­ing at her white and trem­bling hands clasped in her lap. Bel­la­trix low­ered her hood more slow­ly. Dark as her sis­ter was fair, with heav­ily lid­ded eyes and a strong jaw, she did not take her gaze from Snape as she moved to stand be­hind Nar­cis­sa.

“So, what can I do for you?” Snape asked, set­tling him­self in the arm­chair op­po­site the two sis­ters.

“We… we are alone, aren’t we?” Nar­cis­sa asked qui­et­ly.

‘Yes, of course. Well, Worm­tail’s here, but we’re not count­ing ver­min, are we?”

He point­ed his wand at the wall of books be­hind him and with a bang, a hid­den door flew open, re­veal­ing a nar­row stair­case up­on which a small man stood frozen.

“As you have clear­ly re­al­ized, Worm­tail, we have guests,” said Snape lazi­ly.

The man crept, hunch­backed, down the last few steps and moved in­to the room. He had small, wa­tery eyes, a point­ed nose, and wore an un­pleas­ant sim­per. His left hand was ca­ress­ing his right, which looked as though it was en­cased in a bright sil­ver glove.

“Nar­cis­sa!” he said, in a squeaky voice. “And Bel­la­trix! How charm­ing–“

“Worm­tail will get us drinks, if you’d like them,” said Snape. “And then he will re­turn to his bed­room.”

Worm­tail winced as though Snape had thrown some­thing at him.

“I am not your ser­vant!” he squeaked, avoid­ing Snape’s eye.

“Re­al­ly? I was un­der the im­pres­sion that the Dark Lord placed you here to as­sist me.”

“To as­sist, yes–but not to make you drinks and–and clean your house!”

“I had no idea, Worm­tail, that you were crav­ing more dan­ger­ous as­sign­ments,” said Snape silk­ily. “This can be eas­ily ar­ranged: I shall speak to the Dark Lord–“

“I can speak to him my­self if I want to!”

“Of course you can,” said Snape, sneer­ing. “But in the mean­time, bring us drinks. Some of the elf­made wine will do.”

Worm­tail hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, look­ing as though he might ar­gue, but then turned and head­ed through a sec­ond hid­den door. They heard bang­ing and a clink­ing of glass­es. With­in sec­onds he was back, bear­ing a dusty bot­tle and three glass­es up­on a tray. He dropped these on the rick­ety ta­ble and scur­ried from their pres­ence, slam­ming the book­cov­ered door be­hind him.

Snape poured out three glass­es of blood­red wine and hand­ed two of them to the sis­ters. Nar­cis­sa mur­mured a word of thanks, whilst Bel­la­trix said noth­ing, but con­tin­ued to glow­er at Snape. This did not seem to dis­com­pose him; on the con­trary, he looked rather amused.

“The Dark Lord,” he said, rais­ing his glass and drain­ing it.

The sis­ters copied him. Snape re­filled their glass­es. As Nar­cis­sa took her sec­ond drink she said in a rush, “Severus, I’m sor­ry to come here like this, but I had to see you. I think you are the on­ly one who can help me–“

Snape held up a hand to stop her, then point­ed his wand again at the con­cealed stair­case door. There was a loud bang and a squeal, fol­lowed by the sound of Worm­tail scur­ry­ing back up the stairs.

“My apo­lo­gies,” said Snape. “He has late­ly tak­en to lis­ten­ing at doors, I don’t know what he means by it… You were say­ing, Nar­cis­sa?”

She took a great, shud­der­ing breath and start­ed again.

“Severus, I know I ought not to be here, I have been told to say noth­ing to any­one, but–“

“Then you ought to hold your tongue!” snarled Bel­la­trix. “Par­tic­ular­ly in present com­pa­ny!”

‘”Present com­pa­ny’?” re­peat­ed Snape sar­don­ical­ly. “And what am I to un­der­stand by that, Bel­la­trix?”

“That I don’t trust you, Snape, as you very well know!”

Nar­cis­sa let out a noise that might have been a dry sob and cov­ered her face with her hands. Snape set his glass down up­on the ta­ble and sat back again, his hands up­on the arms of his chair, smil­ing in­to Bel­la­trix’s glow­er­ing face.

“Nar­cis­sa, I think we ought to hear what Bel­la­trix is burst­ing to say; it will save te­dious in­ter­rup­tions. Well, con­tin­ue, Bel­la­trix,” said Snape. “Why is it that you do not trust me?”

“A hun­dred rea­sons!” she said loud­ly, strid­ing out from be­hind the so­fa to slam her glass up­on the ta­ble. “Where to start! Where were you when the Dark Lord fell? Why did you nev­er make any at­tempt to find him when he van­ished? What have you been do­ing all these years that you’ve lived in Dum­ble­dore’s pock­et? Why did you stop the Dark Lord procur­ing the Sor­cer­er’s Stone? Why did you not re­turn at once when the Dark Lord was re­born? Where were you a few weeks ago when we bat­tled to re­trieve the prophe­cy for the Dark Lord? And why, Snape, is Har­ry Pot­ter still alive, when you have had him at your mer­cy for five years?”

She paused, her chest ris­ing and falling rapid­ly, the col­or high in her cheeks. Be­hind her, Nar­cis­sa sat mo­tion­less, her face still hid­den in her hands.

Snape smiled.

“Be­fore I an­swer you — oh yes, Bel­la­trix, I am go­ing to an­swer! You can car­ry my words back to the oth­ers who whis­per be­hind my back, and car­ry false tales of my treach­ery to the Dark Lord! Be­fore I an­swer you, I say, let me ask a ques­tion in turn. Do you re­al­ly think that the Dark Lord has not asked me each and ev­ery one of those ques­tions? And do you re­al­ly think that, had I not been able to give sat­is­fac­to­ry an­swers, I would be sit­ting here talk­ing to you?”

She hes­itat­ed.

“I know he be­lieves you, but…”

“You think he is mis­tak­en? Or that I have some­how hood­winked him? Fooled the Dark Lord, the great­est wiz­ard, the most ac­com­plished Legili­mens the world has ev­er seen?”

Bel­la­trix said noth­ing, but looked, for the first time, a lit­tle dis­com­fit­ed. Snape did not press the point. He picked up his drink again, sipped it, and con­tin­ued, “You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he had or­dered me to be, at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, be­cause he wished me to spy up­on Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. You know, I pre­sume, that it was on the Dark Lord’s or­ders that I took up the post?”

She nod­ded al­most im­per­cep­ti­bly and then opened her mouth, but Snape fore­stalled her.

“You ask why I did not at­tempt to find him when he van­ished. For the same rea­son that Av­ery, Yax­ley, the Car­rows, Grey­back, Lu­cius” — he in­clined his head slight­ly to Nar­cis­sa — “and many oth­ers did not at­tempt to find him. I be­lieved him fin­ished. I am not proud of it, I was wrong, but there it is… If he had not for­giv­en we who lost faith at that time, he would have very few fol­low­ers left.”

“He’d have me!” said Bel­la­trix pas­sion­ate­ly. “I, who spent many years in Azk­aban for him!”

“Yes, in­deed, most ad­mirable,” said Snape in a bored voice. “Of i nurse, you weren’t a lot of use to him in prison, but the ges­ture was un­doubt­ed­ly fine —”

“Ges­ture!” she shrieked; in her fury she looked slight­ly mad. “While I en­dured the de­men­tors, you re­mained at Hog­warts, com­lortably play­ing Dum­ble­dore’s pet!”

“Not quite,” said Snape calm­ly. “He wouldn’t give me the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job, you know. Seemed to think it might, ah, bring about a re­lapse ,.. tempt me in­to my old ways.”

“This was your sac­ri­fice for the Dark Lord, not to teach your fa­vorite sub­ject?” she jeered. “Why did you stay there all that time, Snape? Still spy­ing on Dum­ble­dore for a mas­ter you be­lieved dead?”

“Hard­ly,” said Snape, “al­though the Dark Lord is pleased that I nev­er de­sert­ed my post: I had six­teen years of in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore to give him when he re­turned, a rather more use­ful wel­come­back present than end­less rem­inis­cences of how un­pleas­ant Azk­aban is…”

“But you stayed —”

“Yes, Bel­la­trix, I stayed,” said Snape, be­tray­ing a hint of im­pa­tience for the first time. “I had a com­fort­able job that I pre­ferred to a stint in Azk­aban. They were round­ing up the Death Eaters, you know. Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion kept me out of jail; it was most con­ve­nient and I used it. I re­peat: The Dark Lord does not com­plain that I stayed, so I do not see why you do.

“I think you next want­ed to know,” he pressed on, ;i lit­tle more loud­ly, for Bel­la­trix showed ev­ery sign of in­ter­rupt­ing, “why I stood be­tween the Dark Lord and the Sor­cer­er’s Stone. That is eas­ily an­swered. He did not know whether he could trust me. He thought, like you, that I had turned from faith­ful Death Eater to Dum­ble­dore’s stooge. He was in a pitiable con­di­tion, very weak, shar­ing the body of a mediocre wiz­ard. He did not dare re­veal him­self to a for­mer al­ly if that al­ly might turn him over to Dum­ble­dore or the Min­istry. I deeply re­gret that he did not trust me. He would have re­turned to pow­er three years soon­er. As it was, I saw on­ly greedy and un­wor­thy Quir­rell at­tempt­ing to steal the stone and, I ad­mit, I did all I could to thwart him.”

Bel­la­trix’s mouth twist­ed as though she had tak­en an un­pleas­ant dose of medicine.

“But you didn’t re­turn when he came back, you didn’t fly back to him at once when you felt the Dark Mark burn —”

“Cor­rect. I re­turned two hours lat­er. I re­turned on Dum­ble­dore’s or­ders.”

“On Dum­ble­dore’s — ?” she be­gan, in tones of out­rage.

“Think!” said Snape, im­pa­tient again. “Think! By wait­ing two hours, just two hours, I en­sured that I could re­main at Hog­warts as a spy! By al­low­ing Dum­ble­dore to think that I was on­ly re­turn­ing to the Dark Lord’s side be­cause I was or­dered to, I have been able to pass in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore and the Or­der of the Phoenix ev­er since! Con­sid­er, Bel­la­trix: The Dark Mark had been grow­ing stronger for months. I knew he must be about to re­turn, all the Death Eaters knew! I had plen­ty of time to think about what I want­ed to do, to plan my next move, to es­cape like Karkaroff, didn’t I?

“The Dark Lord’s ini­tial dis­plea­sure at my late­ness van­ished en­tire­ly, 1 as­sure you, when I ex­plained that 1 re­mained faith­ful, al­though Dum­ble­dore thought I was his man. Yes, the Dark Lord thought that I had left him for­ev­er, but he was wrong.”

“But what use have you been?” sneered Bel­la­trix. “What use­ful in­for­ma­tion have we had from you?”

“My in­for­ma­tion has been con­veyed di­rect­ly to the Dark Lord,” said Snape. “If he choos­es not to share it with you —”

“He shares ev­ery­thing with me!” said Bel­la­trix, fir­ing up at once. “He calls me his most loy­al, his most faith­ful —”

“Does he?” said Snape, his voice del­icate­ly in­flect­ed to sug­gest his dis­be­lief. “Does he still, af­ter the fi­as­co at the Min­istry?”

“That was not my fault!” said Bel­la­trix, flush­ing. “The Dark Lord has, in the past, en­trust­ed me with his most pre­cious — if Lu­cius hadn’t —”

“Don’t you dare — don’t you dare blame my hus­band!” said Nar­cis­sa, in a low and dead­ly voice, look­ing up at her sis­ter.

“There is no point ap­por­tion­ing blame,” said Snape smooth­ly. “What is done, is done.”

“But not by you!” said Bel­la­trix fu­ri­ous­ly. “No, you were once again ab­sent while the rest of us ran dan­gers, were you not, Snape?”

“My or­ders were to re­main be­hind,” said Snape. “Per­haps you dis­agree with the Dark Lord, per­haps you think that Dum­ble­dore would not have no­ticed if I had joined forces with the Death Eaters to fight the Or­der of the Phoenix? And — for­give me — you speak of dan­gers… you were fac­ing six teenagers, were you not?”

“They were joined, as you very well know, by half of the Or­der be­fore long!” snarled Bel­la­trix. “And, while we are on the sub­ject of the Or­der, you still claim you can­not re­veal the where­abouts of their head­quar­ters, don’t you?”

“I am not the Se­cret­Keep­er; I can­not speak the name of the place. You un­der­stand how the en­chant­ment works, I think? The Dark Lord is sat­is­fied with the in­for­ma­tion I have passed him on the Or­der. It led, as per­haps you have guessed, to the re­cent cap­ture and mur­der of Em­me­line Vance, and it cer­tain­ly helped dis­pose of Sir­ius Black, though I give you full cred­it for fin­ish­ing him off.”

He in­clined his head and toast­ed her. Her ex­pres­sion did nor soft­en.

“You are avoid­ing my last ques­tion, Snape. Har­ry Pot­ter. You could have killed him at any point in the past five years. You have not done it. Why?”

“Have you dis­cussed this mat­ter with the Dark Lord?” asked Snape.

“He… late­ly, we… I am ask­ing you, Snape!”

“If I had mur­dered Har­ry Pot­ter, the Dark Lord could not have used his blood to re­gen­er­ate, mak­ing him in­vin­ci­ble —”

“You claim you fore­saw his use of the boy!” she jeered.

“I do not claim it; I had no idea of his plans; I have al­ready con­fessed that I thought the Dark Lord dead. I am mere­ly try­ing to ex­plain why the Dark Lord is not sor­ry that Pot­ter sur­vived, at least un­til a year ago…”

“But why did you keep him alive?”

“Have you not un­der­stood me? It was on­ly Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion that was keep­ing me out of Azk­aban! Do you dis­agree that mur­der­ing his fa­vorite stu­dent might have turned him against me? But there was more to it than that. I should re­mind you that when Pot­ter first ar­rived at Hog­warts there were still many sto­ries cir­cu­lat­ing about him, ru­mors that he him­self was a great Dark wiz­ard, which was how he had sur­vived the Dark Lord’s at­tack. In­deed, many of the Dark Lords old fol­low­ers thought Pot­ter might be a stan­dard around which we could all ral­ly once more. I was cu­ri­ous, 1 ad­mit it, and not at all in­clined to mur­der him the mo­ment he set fool in the cas­tle.

“Of course, it be­came ap­par­ent to me very quick­ly that he had no ex­traor­di­nary tal­ent at all. He has fought his way out of a num­ber of tight cor­ners by a sim­ple com­bi­na­tion of sheer luck and more tal­ent­ed friends. He is mediocre to the last de­gree, though as ob­nox­ious and self­sat­is­fied as was his fa­ther be­fore him. I have done my ut­most to have him thrown out of Hog­warts, where I be­lieve he scarce­ly be­longs, but kill him, or al­low him to be killed in front of me? I would have been a fool to risk it with Dum­ble­dore close at hand.”

“And through all this we are sup­posed to be­lieve Dum­ble­dore has nev­er sus­pect­ed you?” asked Bel­la­trix. “He has no idea of your true al­le­gi­ance, he trusts you im­plic­it­ly still?”

“I have played my part well,” said Snape. “And you over­look Dum­ble­dore’s great­est weak­ness: He has to be­lieve the best of peo­ple. I spun him a tale of deep­est re­morse when I joined his staff, fresh from my Death Eater days, and he em­braced me with open arms — though, as I say, nev­er al­low­ing me near­er the Dark Arts than he could help. Dum­ble­dore has been a great wiz­ard — oh yes, he has,” (for Bel­la­trix had made a scathing noise), “the Dark Lord ac­knowl­edges it. I am pleased to say, how­ev­er, that Dum­ble­dore is grow­ing old. The du­el with the Dark Lord last month shook him. He has since sus­tained a se­ri­ous in­ju­ry be­cause his re­ac­tions are slow­er than they once were. But through all these years, he has nev­er stopped trust­ing Severus Snape, and there­in lies my great val­ue to the Dark Lord.”

Bel­la­trix still looked un­hap­py, though she ap­peared un­sure how best to at­tack Snape next. Tak­ing ad­van­tage of her si­lence, Snape turned to her sis­ter.

“Now… you came to ask me for help, Nar­cis­sa?”

Nar­cis­sa looked up at him, her face elo­quent with de­spair.

“Yes, Severus. I — I think you are the on­ly one who can help me, I have nowhere else to turn. Lu­cius is in jail and…”

She closed her eyes and two large tears seeped from be­neath her eye­lids.

“The Dark Lord has for­bid­den me to speak of it,” Nar­cis­sa con­tin­ued, her eyes still closed. “He wish­es none to know of the plan. It is… very se­cret. But —”

“If he has for­bid­den it, you ought not to speak,” said Snape at once. “The Dark Lord’s word is law.”

Nar­cis­sa gasped as though he had doused her with cold wa­ter. Bel­la­trix looked sat­is­fied for the first time since she had en­tered the house.

“There!” she said tri­umphant­ly to her sis­ter. “Even Snape says so: You were told not to talk, so hold your si­lence!”

But Snape had got­ten to his feet and strode to the small win­dow, peered through the cur­tains at the de­sert­ed street, then closed them again with a jerk. He turned around to face Nar­cis­sa, frown­ing.

“It so hap­pens that I know of the plan,” he said in a low voice. “I am one of the few the Dark Lord has told. Nev­er­the­less, had I not been in on the se­cret, Nar­cis­sa, you would have been guilty of great treach­ery to the Dark Lord.”

“I thought you must know about it!” said Nar­cis­sa, breath­ing more freely. “He trusts you so, Severus…”

“You know about the plan?” said Bel­la­trix, her fleet­ing ex­pres­sion of sat­is­fac­tion re­placed by a look of out­rage. “You know?”

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Snape. “But what help do you re­quire, Nar­cis­sa? If you are imag­in­ing I can per­suade the Dark Lord to change his mind, I am afraid there is no hope, none at all.”

“Severus,” she whis­pered, tears slid­ing down her pale cheeks. “My son… my on­ly son…”

“Dra­co should be proud,” said Bel­la­trix in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “The Dark I ,ord is grant­ing him a great hon­or. And I will say this for Dra­co: I Ic isn’t shrink­ing away from his du­ty, he seems glad of a chance to prove him­self, ex­cit­ed at the prospect —”

Nar­cis­sa be­gan to cry in earnest, gaz­ing be­seech­ing­ly all the while at Snape.

“That’s be­cause he is six­teen and has no idea what lies in store! Why, Severus? Why my son? It is too dan­ger­ous! This is vengeance lor Lu­cius’s mis­take, I know it!”

Snape said noth­ing. He looked away from the sight of her tears as though they were in­de­cent, but he could not pre­tend not to hear her.

“That’s why he’s cho­sen Dra­co, isn’t it?” she per­sist­ed. “To pun­ish Lu­cius?”

“If Dra­co suc­ceeds,” said Snape, still look­ing away from her, “he will be hon­ored above all oth­ers.”

“But he won’t suc­ceed!” sobbed Nar­cis­sa. “How can he, when the Dark Lord him­self— ?”

Bel­la­trix gasped; Nar­cis­sa seemed to lose her nerve.

“I on­ly meant… that no­body has yet suc­ceed­ed… Severus… please… You are, you have al­ways been, Dra­co’s fa­vorite teach­er… You are Lu­cius’s old friend… I beg you… You are the Dark Lord’s fa­vorite, his most trust­ed ad­vi­sor… Will you speak to him, per­suade him — ?”

“The Dark Lord will not be per­suad­ed, and I am not stupid enough to at­tempt it,” said Snape flat­ly. “I can­not pre­tend that the Dark Lord is not an­gry with Lu­cius. Lu­cius was sup­posed to be in charge. He got him­self cap­tured, along with how many oth­ers, and failed to re­trieve the prophe­cy in­to the bar­gain. Yes, the Dark Lord is an­gry, Nar­cis­sa, very an­gry in­deed.”

“Then I am right, he has cho­sen Dra­co in re­venge!” choked Nar­cis­sa. “He does not mean him to suc­ceed, he wants him to be killed try­ing!”

When Snape said noth­ing, Nar­cis­sa seemed to lose what lit­tle sel­fre­straint she still pos­sessed. Stand­ing up, she stag­gered to Snape and seized the front of his robes. Her face close to his, her tears falling on­to his chest, she gasped, “You could do it. You could do it in­stead of Dra­co, Severus. You would suc­ceed, of course you would, and he would re­ward you be­yond all of us —”

Snape caught hold of her wrists and re­moved her clutch­ing hands. Look­ing down in­to her tearstained face, he said slow­ly, “He in­tends me to do it in the end, I think. But he is de­ter­mined that Dra­co should try first. You see, in the un­like­ly event that Dra­co suc­ceeds, I shall be able to re­main at Hog­warts a lit­tle longer, ful­fill­ing my use­ful role as spy.”

“In oth­er words, it doesn’t mat­ter to him if Dra­co is killed!”

“The Dark Lord is very an­gry,” re­peat­ed Snape qui­et­ly. “He failed to hear the prophe­cy. You know as well as I do, Nar­cis­sa, that he does not for­give eas­ily.”

She crum­pled, falling at his feet, sob­bing and moan­ing on the (loor.

“My on­ly son… my on­ly son…”

“You should be proud!” said Bel­la­trix ruth­less­ly. “If I had sons, I would be glad to give them up to the ser­vice of the Dark Lord!”

Nar­cis­sa gave a lit­tle scream of de­spair and clutched at her long blonde hair. Snape stooped, seized her by the arms, lift­ed her up, iind steered her back on­to the so­fa. He then poured her more wine iind forced the glass in­to her hand.

“Nar­cis­sa, that’s enough. Drink this. Lis­ten to me.”

She qui­et­ed a lit­tle; slop­ping wine down her­self, she took a shaky sip.

“It might be pos­si­ble… for me to help Dra­co.”

She sat up, her face pa­per­white, her eyes huge.

“Severus — oh, Severus — you would help him? Would you look af­ter him, see he comes to no harm?”

“I can try.”

She flung away her glass; it skid­ded across the ta­ble as she slid off the so­fa in­to a kneel­ing po­si­tion at Snape’s feet, seized his hand in both of hers, and pressed her lips to it.

“If you are there to pro­tect him… Severus, will you swear it? Will you make the Un­break­able Vow?”

“The Un­break­able Vow?”

Snape’s ex­pres­sion was blank, un­read­able. Bel­la­trix, how­ev­er, let out a cack­le of tri­umphant laugh­ter.

“Aren’t you lis­ten­ing, Nar­cis­sa? Oh, he’ll try, I’m sure… The usu­al emp­ty words, the usu­al slith­er­ing out of ac­tion… oh, on the Dark Lord’s or­ders, of course!”

Snape did not look at Bel­la­trix. His black eyes were fixed up­on Nar­cis­sa’s tearfilled blue ones as she con­tin­ued to clutch his hand.

“Cer­tain­ly, Nar­cis­sa, I shall make the Un­break­able Vow,” he said qui­et­ly. “Per­haps your sis­ter will con­sent to be our Bon­der.”

Bel­la­trix’s mouth fell open. Snape low­ered him­self so that he was kneel­ing op­po­site Nar­cis­sa. Be­neath Bel­la­trix’s as­ton­ished gaze, they grasped right hands.

“You will need your wand, Bel­la­trix,” said Snape cold­ly.

She drew it, still look­ing as­ton­ished.

“And you will need to move a lit­tle clos­er,” he said.

She stepped for­ward so that she stood over them, and placed the tip of her wand on their linked hands.

Nar­cis­sa spoke.

“Will you, Severus, watch over my son, Dra­co, as he at­tempts ta ful­fill the Dark Lord’s wish­es?”

“I will,” said Snape.

A thin tongue of bril­liant flame is­sued from the wand and wound its way around their hands like a red­hot wire.

“And will you, to the best of your abil­ity, pro­tect him from harm?”

“I will,” said Snape.

A sec­ond tongue of flame shot from the wand and in­ter­linked with the first, mak­ing a fine, glow­ing chain.

“And, should it prove nec­es­sary… if it seems Dra­co will fail…” whis­pered Nar­cis­sa (Snape’s hand twitched with­in hers, but he did not draw away), “will you car­ry out the deed that the Dark Lord has or­dered Dra­co to per­form?”

There was a mo­ment’s si­lence. Bel­la­trix watched, her wand up­on their clasped hands, her eyes wide.

“I will,” said Snape.

Bel­la­trix’s as­tound­ed face glowed red in the blaze of a third unique flame, which shot from the wand, twist­ed with the oth­ers, and bound it­self thick­ly around their clasped hands, like a fiery snake.





