Chapter 20: Lord Voldemort’s Request


Har­ry and Ron left the hos­pi­tal wing first thing on Mon­day morn­ing, re­stored to full health by the min­is­tra­tions of Madam Pom­frey and now able to en­joy the ben­efits of hav­ing been knocked out and poi­soned, the best of which was that Hermione was friends with Ron again. Hermione even es­cort­ed them down to break­fast, bring­ing with her the news that Gin­ny had ar­gued with Dean. The drows­ing crea­ture in Har­ry’s chest sud­den­ly raised its head, sniff­ing the air hope­ful­ly.

“What did they row about?” he asked, try­ing to sound ca­su­al as they turned on­to a sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor that was de­sert­ed but for a very small girl who had been ex­am­in­ing a tapestry of trolls in tu­tus. She looked ter­ri­fied at the sight of the ap­proach­ing sixth years and dropped the heavy brass scales she was car­ry­ing.

“It’s all right!” said Hermione kind­ly, hur­ry­ing for­ward to help her. “Here …”

She tapped the bro­ken scales with her wand and said, “Reparo.” The girl did not say thank you, but re­mained root­ed to the spot as they passed and watched them out of sight; Ron glanced back at her.

“I swear they’re get­ting small­er,” he said.

“Nev­er mind her,” said Har­ry, a lit­tle im­pa­tient­ly. “What did Gin­ny and Dean row about, Hermione?”

“Oh, Dean was laugh­ing about McLaggen hit­ting that Bludgu at you,” said Hermione.

“It must’ve looked fun­ny,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “It didn’t look fun­ny at all!” said Hermione hot­ly. “It looked ter­ri­ble and if Coote and Peakes hadn’t caught Har­ry he could have been very bad­ly hurt!”

“Yeah, well, there was no need for Gin­ny and Dean to split up over it,” said Har­ry, still try­ing to sound ca­su­al. “Or are they still to­geth­er?”

“Yes, they are — but why are you so in­ter­est­ed?” asked Hermione, giv­ing Har­ry a sharp look.

“I just don’t want my Quid­ditch team messed up again!” he said hasti­ly, but Hermione con­tin­ued to look sus­pi­cious, and he was most re­lieved when a voice be­hind them called, “Har­ry!” giv­ing him an ex­cuse to turn his back on her. “Oh, hi, Lu­na.”

- “I went to the hos­pi­tal wing to find you,” said Lu­na, rum­mag­ing in her bag. “But they said you’d left…”

She thrust what ap­peared to be a green onion, a large spot­ted toad­stool, and a con­sid­er­able amount of what looked like cat lit­ter in­to Ron’s hands, fi­nal­ly pulling out a rather grub­by scroll of parch­ment that she hand­ed to Har­ry.

“. . . I’ve been told to give you this.”

It was a small roll of parch­ment, which Har­ry rec­og­nized at once as an­oth­er in­vi­ta­tion to a les­son with Dum­ble­dore.

“Tonight,” he told Ron and Hermione, once he had un­rolled it.

“Nice com­men­tary last match!” said Ron to Lu­na as she took back the green onion, the toad­stool, and the cat lit­ter. Lu­na smiled vague­ly.

“You’re mak­ing fun of me, aren’t you?” she said. “Ev­ery­one says I was dread­ful.”

“No, I’m se­ri­ous!” said Ron earnest­ly. “I can’t re­mem­ber en­joy­ing com­men­tary more! What is this, by the way?” he added, hold­ing the onion­like ob­ject up to eye lev­el.

“Oh, it’s a Gur­dy­root,” she said, stuff­ing the cat lit­ter and the toad­stool back in­to her bag. “You can keep it if you like, I’ve got a few of them. They’re re­al­ly ex­cel­lent for ward­ing off Gulp­ing Plimp­ies.” And she walked away, leav­ing Ron chortling, still clutch­ing the Gur­dy­root.

“You know, she’s grown on me, Lu­na,” he said, as they set off again for the Great Hall. “I know she’s in­sane, but it’s in a good —” He stopped talk­ing very sud­den­ly. Laven­der Brown was stand­ing at the foot of the mar­ble stair­case look­ing thun­der­ous. “Hi,” said Ron ner­vous­ly.

“C’mon,” Har­ry mut­tered to Hermione, and they sped past, though not be­fore they had heard Laven­der say, “Why didn’t you tell me you were get­ting out to­day? And why was she with you?”

Ron looked both sulky and an­noyed when he ap­peared at break­fast half an hour lat­er, and though he sat with Laven­der, Har­ry did not see them ex­change a word all the time they were to­geth­er. Hermione was act­ing as though she was quite obliv­ious to all of this, but once or twice Har­ry saw an in­ex­pli­ca­ble smirk cross her face. All that day she seemed to be in a par­tic­ular­ly good mood, and that evening in the com­mon room she even con­sent­ed to look over (in oth­er words, fin­ish writ­ing) Har­ry’s Her­bol­ogy es­say, some­thing she had been res­olute­ly re­fus­ing to do up to this point, be­cause she had known that Har­ry would then let Ron copy his work.

“Thanks a lot, Hermione,” said Har­ry, giv­ing her a hasty pat on the back as he checked his watch and saw that it was near­ly eight o’clock. “Lis­ten, I’ve got to hur­ry or I’ll be late for Dum­ble­dore. …”

She did not an­swer, but mere­ly crossed out a few of his fee­bler sen­tences in a weary sort of way. Grin­ning, Har­ry hur­ried out through the por­trait hole and off to the head­mas­ters of­fice. The gar­goyle leapt aside at the men­tion of tof­fee eclairs, and Har­ry took the spi­ral stair­case two steps at a time, knock­ing on the door just as a clock with­in chimed eight.

“En­ter,” called Dum­ble­dore, but as Har­ry put out a hand to push the door, it was wrenched open from in­side. There stood Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

“Aha!” she cried, point­ing dra­mat­ical­ly at Har­ry as she blinked at him through her mag­ni­fy­ing spec­ta­cles.

“So this is the rea­son I am to be thrown un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly from your of­fice, Dum­ble­dore!”

“My dear Sybill,” said Dum­ble­dore in a slight­ly ex­as­per­at­ed voice, “there is no ques­tion of throw­ing you un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly from any­where, but Har­ry does have an ap­point­ment, and I re­al­ly don’t think there is any more to be said —”

“Very well,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in a deeply wound­ed voice. “If you will not ban­ish the usurp­ing nag, so be it. …

Per­haps I shall find a school where my tal­ents are bet­ter ap­pre­ci­at­ed. …”

She pushed past Har­ry and dis­ap­peared down the spi­ral stair­case; they heard her stum­ble halfway down, and Har­ry guessed that she had tripped over one of her trail­ing shawls.

“Please close the door and sit down, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, sound­ing rather tired.

Har­ry obeyed, not­ic­ing as he took his usu­al seat in front of Dum­ble­dore’s desk that the Pen­sieve lay be­tween them once more, as did two more tiny crys­tal bot­tles full of swirling mem­ory.

“Pro­fes­sor Trelawney still isn’t hap­py Firen­ze is teach­ing, then?” Har­ry asked.

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore, “Div­ina­tion is turn­ing out to be much more trou­ble than I could have fore­seen, nev­er hav­ing stud­ied the sub­ject my­self. I can­not ask Firen­ze to re­turn to the for­est, where he is now an out­cast, nor can I ask Sybill Trelawney to leave. Be­tween our­selves, she has no idea of the dan­ger she would be in out­side the cas­tle. She does not know — and I think it would be un­wise to en­light­en her — that she made the prophe­cy about you and Volde­mort, you see.”

Dum­ble­dore heaved a deep sigh, then said, “But nev­er mind my staffing prob­lems. We have much more im­por­tant mat­ters to dis­cuss. First­ly — have you man­aged the task I set you at the end of our pre­vi­ous les­son?”

“Ah,” said Har­ry, brought up short. What with Ap­pari­tion lessons and Quid­ditch and Ron be­ing poi­soned and get­ting his skull cracked and his de­ter­mi­na­tion to find out what Dra­co Mal­foy was up to, Har­ry had al­most for­got­ten about the mem­ory Dum­ble­dore had asked him to ex­tract from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn. “Well, I asked Pro­fes­sor Slughorn about it at the end of Po­tions, sir, but, er, he wouldn’t give it to me.” There was a lit­tle si­lence.

“I see,” said Dum­ble­dore even­tu­al­ly, peer­ing at Har­ry over the top of his half­moon spec­ta­cles and giv­ing Har­ry the usu­al sen­sa­tion that he was be­ing Xrayed. “And you feel that you have ex­ert­ed your very best ef­forts in this mat­ter, do you? That you have ex­er­cised all of your con­sid­er­able in­ge­nu­ity? That you have left no depth of cun­ning un­plumbed in your quest to re­trieve the mem­ory?”

“Well,” Har­ry stalled, at a loss for what to say next. His sin­gle at­tempt to get hold of the mem­ory sud­den­ly seemed em­bar­rass­ing­ly fee­ble. “Well . . . the day Ron sw­al­lowed love po­tion by mis­take I took him to Pro­fes­sor Slughorn. I thought maybe if I got Pro­fes­sor Slughorn in a good enough mood —” “And did that work?” asked Dum­ble­dore. “Well, no, sir, be­cause Ron got poi­soned —” “— which, nat­ural­ly, made you for­get all about try­ing to re­trieve the mem­ory; I would have ex­pect­ed noth­ing else, while your best friend was in dan­ger. Once it be­came clear that Mr. Weasley was go­ing to make a full re­cov­ery, how­ev­er, I would have hoped that you re­turned to the task I set you. I thought I made it clear to you how very im­por­tant that mem­ory is. In­deed, I did my best to im­press up­on you that it is the most cru­cial mem­ory of all and that we will be wast­ing our time with­out it.”

A hot, prick­ly feel­ing of shame spread from the top of Har­ry’s head all the way down his body. Dum­ble­dore had not raised his voice, he did not even sound an­gry, but Har­ry would have pre­ferred him to yell; this cold dis­ap­point­ment was worse than any­thing.

“Sir,” he said, a lit­tle des­per­ate­ly, “it isn’t that I wasn’t both­ered or any­thing, I’ve just had oth­er — oth­er things . . .”

“Oth­er things on your mind,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished the sen­tence for him. “I see.”

Si­lence fell be­tween them again, the most un­com­fort­able si­lence Har­ry had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced with Dum­ble­dore; it seemed to go on and on, punc­tu­at­ed on­ly by the lit­tle grunt­ing snores of the por­trait of Ar­man­do Dip­pet over Dum­ble­dore’s head. Har­ry felt strange­ly di­min­ished, as though he had shrunk a lit­tle since he had en­tered the room. When he could stand it no longer he said, “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry. I should have done more. … I should have re­al­ized you wouldn’t have asked me to do it if it wasn’t re­al­ly im­por­tant.”

“Thank you for say­ing that, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “May I hope, then, that you will give this mat­ter high­er pri­or­ity from now on? There will be lit­tle point in our meet­ing af­ter tonight un­less we have that mem­ory.”

“I’ll do it, sir, I’ll get it from him,” he said earnest­ly.

“Then we shall say no more about it just now,” said Dum­ble­dore more kind­ly, “but con­tin­ue with our sto­ry where we left off. You re­mem­ber where that was?”

“Yes, sir,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Volde­mort killed his fa­ther and his grand­par­ents and made it look as though his Un­cle Morfin did it. Then he went back to Hog­warts and he asked … he asked Pro­fes­sor Slughorn about Hor­crux­es,” he mum­bled shame­faced­ly.

“Very good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Now, you will re­mem­ber, I hope, that I told you at the very out­set of these meet­in­gs of ours that we would be en­ter­ing the realms of guess­work and spec­ula­tion?”

“Yes, sir”.

“Thus far, as I hope you agree, I have shown you rea­son­ably firm sources of fact for my de­duc­tions as to what Volde­mort did un­til the age of sev­en­teen?”

Har­ry nod­ded.

“But now, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, “now things be­come mur­ki­er and stranger. If it was dif­fi­cult to find ev­idence about the boy Rid­dle, it has been al­most im­pos­si­ble to find any­one pre­pared to rem­inisce about the man Volde­mort. In fact, I doubt whether there is a soul alive, apart from him­self, who could give us a full ac­count of his life since he left Hog­warts. How­ev­er, I have two last mem­ories that I would like to share with you.” Dum­ble­dore in­di­cat­ed the two lit­tle crys­tal bot­tles gleam­ing be­side the Pen­sieve. “I shall then be glad of your opin­ion as to whether the con­clu­sions I have drawn from them seem like­ly.”

The idea that Dum­ble­dore val­ued his opin­ion this high­ly made Har­ry feel even more deeply ashamed that he had failed in the task of re­triev­ing the Hor­crux mem­ory, and he shift­ed guilti­ly in his seat as Dum­ble­dore raised the first of the two bot­tles to the light and ex­am­in­ed it.

“I hope you are not tired of div­ing in­to oth­er peo­ple’s mem­ories, for they are cu­ri­ous rec­ol­lec­tions, these two,” he said. “This first one came from a very old house­elf by the name of Hokey. Be­fore we see what Hokey wit­nessed, I must quick­ly re­count how Lord Volde­mort left Hog­warts.

“He reached the sev­enth year of his school­ing with, as you might have ex­pect­ed, top grades in ev­ery ex­am­ina­tion he had tak­en. All around him, his class­mates were de­cid­ing which jobs they were to pur­sue once they had left Hog­warts. Near­ly ev­ery­body ex­pect­ed spec­tac­ular things from Tom Rid­dle, pre­fect, Head Boy, win­ner of the Award for Spe­cial Ser­vices to the School. I know that sev­er­al teach­ers, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn amongst them, sug­gest­ed that he join the Min­istry of Mag­ic, of­fered to set up ap­point­ments, put him in touch with use­ful con­tacts. He re­fused all of­fers. The next thing the staff knew, Volde­mort was work­ing at Bor­gin and Burkes.”

“At Bor­gin and Burkes?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, stunned.

“At Bor­gin and Burkes,” re­peat­ed Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “I think you will see what at­trac­tions the place held for him when we have en­tered Hokey’s mem­ory. But this was not Volde­mort’s first choice of job. Hard­ly any­one knew of it at the time — I was one of the few in whom the then head­mas­ter con­fid­ed — but Volde­mort first ap­proached Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet and asked whether he could re­main at Hog­warts as a teach­er.”

“He want­ed to stay here? Why?” asked Har­ry, more amazed still.

“I be­lieve he had sev­er­al rea­sons, though he con­fid­ed none of them to Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet,” said Dum­ble­dore. “First­ly, and very im­por­tant­ly, Volde­mort was, I be­lieve, more at­tached to this school than he has ev­er been to a per­son. Hog­warts was where he had been hap­pi­est; the first and on­ly place he had felt at home.”

Har­ry felt slight­ly un­com­fort­able at these words, for this was ex­act­ly how he felt about Hog­warts too.

“Sec­ond­ly, the cas­tle is a stronghold of an­cient mag­ic. Un­doubt­ed­ly Volde­mort had pen­etrat­ed many more of its se­crets than most of the stu­dents who pass through the place, but he may have felt that there were still mys­ter­ies to un­rav­el, stores of mag­ic to tap.

“And third­ly, as a teach­er, he would have had great pow­er and in­flu­ence over young witch­es and wiz­ards. Per­haps he had gained the idea from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, the teach­er with whom he was on best terms, who had de­mon­strat­ed how in­flu­en­tial a role a teach­er can play. I do not imag­ine for an in­stant that Volde­mort en­vis­aged spend­ing the rest of his life at Hog­warts, but I do think that he saw it as a use­ful re­cruit­ing ground, and a place where he might be­gin to build him­self an army.”

“But he didn’t get the job, sir?”

“No, he did not. Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet told him that he was too young at eigh­teen, but in­vit­ed him to reap­ply in a few years, if he still wished to teach.”

“How did you feel about that, sir?” asked Har­ry hes­itant­ly. “Deeply un­easy,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I had ad­vised Ar­man­do against the ap­point­ment — I did not give the rea­sons I have giv­en you, for Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet was very fond of Volde­mort and con­vinced of his hon­es­ty. But I did not want Lord Volde­mort back at this school, and es­pe­cial­ly not in a po­si­tion of pow­er.”

“Which job did he want, sir? What sub­ject did he want to teach?”

Some­how, Har­ry knew the an­swer even be­fore Dum­ble­dore gave it.

“De­fense Against the Dark Arts. It was be­ing taught at the time by an old Pro­fes­sor by the name of Galatea Mer­ry­thought, who had been at Hog­warts for near­ly fifty years.

“So Volde­mort went off to Bor­gin and Burkes, and all the staff who had ad­mired him said what a waste it was, a bril­liant young wiz­ard like that, work­ing in a shop. How­ev­er, Volde­mort was no mere as­sis­tant. Po­lite and hand­some and clever, he was soon giv­en par­tic­ular jobs of the type that on­ly ex­ist in a place like Bor­gin and Burkes, which spe­cial­izes, as you know, Har­ry, in ob­jects with un­usu­al and pow­er­ful prop­er­ties. Volde­mort was sent to per­suade peo­ple to part with their trea­sures for sale by the part­ners, and he was, by all ac­counts, un­usu­al­ly gift­ed at do­ing this.”

“I’ll bet he was,” said Har­ry, un­able to con­tain him­self.

“Well, quite,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a faint smile. “And now it is time to hear from Hokey the house­elf, who worked for a very old, very rich witch by the name of Hep­zibah Smith.”

Dum­ble­dore tapped a bot­tle with his wand, the cork flew out, and he tipped the swirling mem­ory in­to the Pen­sieve, say­ing as he did so, “Af­ter you, Har­ry.”

Har­ry got to his feet and bent once more over the rip­pling sil­ver con­tents of the stone basin un­til his face touched them. He tum­bled through dark noth­ing­ness and land­ed in a sit­ting room in front of an im­mense­ly fat old la­dy wear­ing an elab­orate gin­ger wig and a bril­liant pink set of robes that flowed all around her, giv­ing her the look of a melt­ing iced cake. She was look­ing in­to a small jew­eled mir­ror and dab­bing rouge on­to her al­ready scar­let cheeks with a large pow­der puff, while the ti­ni­est and old­est house­elf Har­ry had ev­er seen laced her fleshy feet in­to tight satin slip­pers.

“Hur­ry up, Hokey!” said Hep­zibah im­pe­ri­ous­ly. “He said he’d come at four, it’s on­ly a cou­ple of min­utes to and he’s nev­er been late yet!”

She tucked away her pow­der puff as the house­elf straight­ened up. The top of the elf’s head bare­ly reached the seat of Hep­zibah’s chair, and her pa­pery skin hung off her frame just like the crisp linen sheet she wore draped like a to­ga.

“How do I look?” said Hep­zibah, turn­ing her head to ad­mire the var­ious an­gles of her face in the mir­ror.

“Love­ly, madam,” squeaked Hokey.

Har­ry could on­ly as­sume that it was down in Hokey’s con­tract that she must lie through her teeth when asked this ques­tion, be­cause Hep­zibah Smith looked a long way from love­ly in his opin­ion.

A tin­kling door­bell rang and both mis­tress and elf jumped.

“Quick, quick, he’s here, Hokey!” cried Hep­zibah and the elf scur­ried out of the room, which was so crammed with ob­jects that it was dif­fi­cult to see how any­body could nav­igate their way across it with­out knock­ing over at least a dozen things: There were cab­in­ets full of lit­tle lac­quered box­es, cas­es full of gol­dem­bossed books, shelves of orbs and ce­les­tial globes, and many flour­ish­ing pot­ted plants in brass con­tain­ers. In fact, the room looked like a cross be­tween a mag­ical an­tique shop and a con­ser­va­to­ry.

The house­elf re­turned with­in min­utes, fol­lowed by a tall young man Har­ry had no dif­fi­cul­ty what­so­ev­er in rec­og­niz­ing as Volde­mort. He was plain­ly dressed in a black suit; his hair was a lit­tle longer than it had been at school and his cheeks were hol­lowed, but all of this suit­ed him; he looked more hand­some than ev­er. He picked his way through the cramped room with an air that showed he had vis­it­ed many times be­fore and bowed low over Hep­zibah’s fat lit­tle hand, brush­ing it with his lips.

“I brought you flow­ers,” he said qui­et­ly, pro­duc­ing a bunch of ros­es from nowhere.

“You naughty boy, you shouldn’t have!” squealed old Hep­zibah, though Har­ry no­ticed that she had an emp­ty vase stand­ing ready on the near­est lit­tle ta­ble. “You do spoil this old la­dy, Tom. … Sit down, sit down. . . . Where’s Hokey? Ah …”

The house­elf had come dash­ing back in­to the room car­ry­ing a tray of lit­tle cakes, which she set at her mis­tress’s el­bow.

“Help your­self, Tom,” said Hep­zibah, “I know how you love my cakes. Now, how are you? You look pale. They over­work you at that shop, I’ve said it a hun­dred times. …”

Volde­mort smiled me­chan­ical­ly and Hep­zibah sim­pered.

“Well, what’s your ex­cuse for vis­it­ing this time?” she asked, ba­tring her lash­es.

“Mr. Burke would like to make an im­proved of­fer for the gob­lin­made ar­mor,” said Volde­mort. “Five hun­dred Galleons, he feels it is a more than fair —”

“Now, now, not so fast, or I’ll think you’re on­ly here for my trin­kets!” pout­ed Hep­zibah.

“I am or­dered here be­cause of them,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “I am on­ly a poor as­sis­tant, madam, who must do as he is told. Mr. Burke wish­es me to in­quire —”

“Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!” said Hep­zibah, wav­ing a lit­tle hand. “I’ve some­thing to show you that I’ve nev­er shown Mr. Burke! Can you keep a se­cret, Tom? Will you promise you won’t tell Mr. Burke I’ve got it? He’d nev­er let me rest if he knew I’d shown it to you, and I’m not sell­ing, not to Burke, not to any­one! But you, Tom, you’ll ap­pre­ci­ate it for its his­to­ry, not how many Galleons you can get for it.”

“I’d be glad to see any­thing Miss Hep­zibah shows me,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly, and Hep­zibah gave an­oth­er girl­ish gig­gle.

“I had Hokey bring it out for me . . . Hokey, where are you? I want to show Mr. Rid­dle our finest trea­sure. … In fact, bring both, while you’re at it. …”

“Here, madam,” squeaked the house­elf, and Har­ry saw two leather box­es, one on top of the oth­er, mov­ing across the room as if of their own vo­li­tion, though he knew the tiny elf was hold­ing them over her head as she wend­ed her way be­tween ta­bles, ***pouffes, and foot­stools.

“Now,” said Hep­zibah hap­pi­ly, tak­ing the box­es from the elf, lay­ing them in her lap, and prepar­ing to open the top­most one, “I think you’ll like this, Tom. . . . Oh, if my fam­ily knew I was show­ing you. . . . They can’t wait to get their hands on this!”

She opened the lid. Har­ry edged for­ward a lit­tle to get a bet­ter view and saw what looked like a small gold­en cup with two fine­ly wrought han­dles.

“I won­der whether you know what it is, Tom? Pick it up, have a good look!” whis­pered Hep­zibah, and Volde­mort stretched out a longfin­gered hand and lift­ed the cup by one han­dle out of its snug silken wrap­pings. Har­ry thought he saw a red gleam in his dark eyes. His greedy ex­pres­sion was cu­ri­ous­ly mir­rored on Hep­zibah’s face, ex­cept that her tiny eyes were fixed up­on Volde­mort’s hand­some fea­tures.

“A bad­ger,” mur­mured Volde­mort, ex­am­in­ing the en­grav­ing up­on the cup. “Then this was . . . ?”

“Hel­ga Huf­flepuff’s, as you very well know, you clever boy!” said Hep­zibah, lean­ing for­ward with a loud creak­ing of corsets and ac­tu­al­ly pinch­ing his hol­low cheek. “Didn’t I tell you I was dis­tant­ly de­scend­ed? This has been hand­ed down in the fam­ily for years and years. Love­ly, isn’t it? And all sorts of pow­ers it’s sup­posed to pos­sess too, but I haven’t test­ed them thor­ough­ly, I just keep it nice and safe in here. . . .”

She hooked the cup back off Volde­mort’s long fore­fin­ger and re­stored it gen­tly to its box, too in­tent up­on set­tling it care­ful­ly back in­to po­si­tion to no­tice the shad­ow that crossed Volde­mort’s face as the cup was tak­en away.

“Now then,” said Hep­zibah hap­pi­ly, “where’s Hokey? Oh yes, there you are — take that away now, Hokey.”

The elf obe­di­ent­ly took the boxed cup, and Hep­zibah turned her at­ten­tion to the much flat­ter box in her lap.

“I think you’ll like this even more, Tom,” she whis­pered. “Lean in a lit­tle, dear boy, so you can see. . . . Of course, Burke knows I’ve got this one, I bought it from him, and I dare­say he’d love to get it back when I’m gone. …”

She slid back the fine fil­igree clasp and flipped open the box. There up­on the smooth crim­son vel­vet lay a heavy gold­en lock­et.

Volde­mort reached out his hand, with­out in­vi­ta­tion this time, and held it up to the light, star­ing at it.

“Slytherin’s mark,” he said qui­et­ly, as the light played up­on an or­nate, ser­pen­tine S.

“That’s right!” said Hep­zibah, de­light­ed, ap­par­ent­ly, at the sight of Volde­mort gaz­ing at her lock­et, trans­fixed. “I had to pay an arm and a leg for it, but I couldn’t let it pass, not a re­al trea­sure like that, had to have it for my col­lec­tion. Burke bought it, ap­par­ent­ly, from a ragged­look­ing wom­an who seemed to have stolen it, but had no idea of its true val­ue —”

There was no mis­tak­ing it this time: Volde­mort’s eyes flashed scar­let at the words, and Har­ry saw his knuck­les whiten on the lock­et’s chain.

“— I dare­say Burke paid her a pit­tance but there you are. . . . Pret­ty, isn’t it? And again, all kinds of pow­ers at­trib­ut­ed to it, though I just keep it nice and safe. . . .”

She reached out to take the lock­et back. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Volde­mort was not go­ing to let go of it, but then it had slid through his fin­gers and was back in its red vel­vet cush­ion.

“So there you are, Tom, clear, and I hope you en­joyed that!”

She looked him full in the face and for the first time, Har­ry saw her fool­ish smile fal­ter.

“Are you all right, dear?”

“Oh yes,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “Yes, I’m very well. …”

“I thought — but a trick of the light, I sup­pose —” said Hep­zibah, look­ing un­nerved, and Har­ry guessed that she too had seen the mo­men­tary red gleam in Volde­mort’s eyes. “Here, Hokey, take these away and lock them up again. … The usu­al en­chant­ments…

“Time to leave, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, and as the in tie elf bobbed away bear­ing the box­es, Dum­ble­dore grasped Har­ry once again above the el­bow and to­geth­er they rose up through obliv­ion and back to Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice.

“Hep­zibah Smith died two days af­ter that lit­tle scene,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­sum­ing his seat and in­di­cat­ing that Har­ry should do the same. “Hokey the house­elf was con­vict­ed by the Min­istry of poi­son­ing her mis­tress’s evening co­coa by ac­ci­dent.”

“No way!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

“I see we are of one mind,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Cer­tain­ly, then are many sim­ilar­ities be­tween this death and that of the Rid­dles. In both cas­es, some­body else took the blame, some­one who had a clear mem­ory of hav­ing caused the death —” “Hokey con­fessed?”

“She re­mem­bered putting some­thing in her mis­tress’s co­coa that turned out not to be sug­ar, but a lethal and lit­tle­known poi­son, said Dum­ble­dore. “It was con­clud­ed that she had not meant to do it, but be­ing old and con­fused —”

“Volde­mort mod­ified her mem­ory, just like he did with Morfin!” “Yes, that is my con­clu­sion too,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And, just as with Morfin, the Min­istry was pre­dis­posed to sus­pect Hokey —”

“— be­cause she was a house­elf,” said Har­ry. He had rarely felt more in sym­pa­thy with the so­ci­ety Hermione had set up, S.P.E.W. “Pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “She was old, she ad­mit­ted to hav­ing tam­pered with the drink, and no­body at the Min­istry both­ered to in­quire fur­ther. As in the case of Morfin, by the time I traced her and man­aged to ex­tract this mem­ory, her life was al­most over — but her mem­ory, of course, proves noth­ing ex­cept that Volde­mort knew of the ex­is­tence of the cup and the lock­et.

“By the time Hokey was con­vict­ed, Hep­zibah’s fam­ily had re­al­ized that two of her great­est trea­sures were miss­ing. It took them a while to be sure of this, for she had many hid­ing places, hav­ing al­ways guard­ed her col­lec­tion most jeal­ous­ly. But be­fore they were sure be­yond doubt that the cup and the lock­et were both gone, the as­sis­tant who had worked at Bor­gin and Burkes, the young man who had vis­it­ed Hep­zibah so reg­ular­ly and charmed her so well, had re­signed his post and van­ished. His su­pe­ri­ors had no idea where he had gone; they were as sur­prised as any­one at his dis­ap­pear­an­ce. And that was the last that was seen or heard of Tom Rid­dle for a very long time.

“Now,” said Dum­ble­dore, “if you don’t mind, Har­ry, I want to pause once more to draw your at­ten­tion to cer­tain points of our sto­ry. Volde­mort had com­mit­ted an­oth­er mur­der; whether it was his first since he killed the Rid­dles, I do not know, but I think it was. This time, as you will have seen, he killed not for re­venge, but for gain. He want­ed the two fab­ulous tro­phies that poor, be­sot­ted, old wom­an showed him. Just as he had once robbed the oth­er chil­dren at his or­phan­age, just as he had stolen his Un­cle Morfin’s ring, so he ran off now with Hep­zibahs cup and lock­et.”

“But,” said Har­ry, frown­ing, “it seems mad. . . . Risk­ing ev­ery­thing, throw­ing away his job, just for those . . .”

“Mad to you, per­haps, but not to Volde­mort,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I hope you will un­der­stand in due course ex­act­ly what those ob­jects meant to him, Har­ry, but you must ad­mit that it is not dif­fi­cult to imag­ine that he saw the lock­et, at least, as right­ful­ly his.” “The lock­et maybe,” said Har­ry, “but why take the cup as well?”

“It had be­longed to an­oth­er of Hog­warts’s founders,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think he still felt a great pull to­ward the school and that he could not re­sist an ob­ject so steeped in Hog­warts his­to­ry. There were oth­er rea­sons, I think. … I hope to be able to de­mon­strate them to you in due course.

“And now for the very last rec­ol­lec­tion I have to show you, at least un­til you man­age to re­trieve Pro­fes­sor Slughorn’s mem­ory for us. Ten years sep­arates Hokey’s mem­ory and this one, ten years dur­ing which we can on­ly guess at what Lord Volde­mort was do­ing. . . .” Har­ry got to his feet once more as Dum­ble­dore emp­tied the last mem­ory in­to the Pen­sieve.

“Whose mem­ory is it?” he asked. “Mine,” said Dum­ble­dore.

And Har­ry dived af­ter Dum­ble­dore through the shift­ing sil­ver mass, land­ing in the very of­fice he had just left. There was Fawkes slum­ber­ing hap­pi­ly on his perch, and there be­hind the desk was Dum­ble­dore, who looked very sim­ilar to the Dum­ble­dore stand­ing be­side Har­ry, though both hands were whole and un­dam­aged and his face was, per­haps, a lit­tle less lined. The one dif­fer­ence be­tween the present­day of­fice and this one was that it was snow­ing in the past; bluish flecks were drift­ing past the win­dow in the dark and build­ing up on the out­side ledge.

The younger Dum­ble­dore seemed to be wait­ing for some­thing, and sure enough, mo­ments af­ter their ar­ri­val, there was a knock on the door and he said, “En­ter.”

Har­ry let out a hasti­ly sti­fled gasp. Volde­mort had en­tered the room. His fea­tures were not those Har­ry had seen emerge from the great stone caul­dron al­most two years ago: They were not as snake­like, the eyes were not yet scar­let, the face not yet mask­like, and yet he was no longer hand­some Tom Rid­dle. It was as though his fea­tures had been burned and blurred; they were waxy and odd­ly dis­tort­ed, and the whites of the eyes now had a per­ma­nent­ly bloody look, though the pupils were not yet the slits that Har­ry knew they would be­come. He was wear­ing a long black cloak, and his face was as pale as the snow glis­ten­ing on his shoul­ders.

The Dum­ble­dore be­hind the desk showed no sign of sur­prise. Ev­ident­ly this vis­it had been made by ap­point­ment.

“Good evening, Tom,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily. “Won’t you sit down?”

“Thank you,” said Volde­mort, and he took the seat to which Dum­ble­dore had ges­tured — the very seat, by the looks of it, that Har­ry had just va­cat­ed in the present. “I heard that you had be­come head­mas­ter,” he said, and his voice was slight­ly high­er and cold­er than it had been. “A wor­thy choice.”

“I am glad you ap­prove,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “May I of­fer you a drink?”

“That would be wel­come,” said Volde­mort. “I have come a long way.”

Dum­ble­dore stood and swept over to the cab­in­et where he now kept the Pen­sieve, but which then was full of bot­tles. Hav­ing hand­ed Volde­mort a gob­let of wine and poured one for him­self, he re­turned to the seat be­hind his desk. . “So, Tom … to what do I owe the plea­sure?”

Volde­mort did not an­swer at once, but mere­ly sipped his wine.

“They do not call me ‘Tom’ any­more,” he said. “These days, 1 am known as —”

“I know what you are known as,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing, pleas­ant­ly. “But to me, I’m afraid, you will al­ways be Tom Rid­dle. It is one of the ir­ri­tat­ing things about old teach­ers. I am afraid that they nev­er quite for­get their charges’ youth­ful be­gin­nings.”

He raised his glass as though toast­ing Volde­mort, whose face re­mained ex­pres­sion­less. Nev­er­the­less, Har­ry felt the at­mo­sphere in the room change sub­tly: Dum­ble­dore’s re­fusal to use Volde­mort’s cho­sen name was a re­fusal to al­low Volde­mort to dic­tate the terms of the meet­ing, and Har­ry could tell that Volde­mort took it as such.

“I am sur­prised you have re­mained here so long,” said Volde­mort af­ter a short pause. “I al­ways won­dered why a wiz­ard such as your­self nev­er wished to leave school.”

“Well,” said Dum­ble­dore, still smil­ing, “to a wiz­ard such as my­self, there can be noth­ing more im­por­tant than pass­ing on an­cient skills, help­ing hone young minds. If I re­mem­ber cor­rect­ly, you once saw the at­trac­tion of teach­ing too.”

“I see it still,” said Volde­mort. “I mere­ly won­dered why you — who are so of­ten asked for ad­vice by the Min­istry, and who have twice, I think, been of­fered the post of Min­is­ter —”

“Three times at the last count, ac­tu­al­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But the Min­istry nev­er at­tract­ed me as a ca­reer. Again, some­thing we have in com­mon, I think.”

Volde­mort in­clined his head, un­smil­ing, and took an­oth­er sip of wine. Dum­ble­dore did not break the si­lence that stretched be­tween them now, but wait­ed, with a look of pleas­ant ex­pectan­cy, for Volde­mort to talk first.

“I have re­turned,” he said, af­ter a lit­tle while, “lat­er, per­haps, than Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet ex­pect­ed . . . but I have re­turned, nev­er­the­less, to re­quest again what he once told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to ask that you per­mit me to re­turn to this cas­tle, to teach. I think you must know that I have seen and done much since I left this place. I could show and tell your stu­dents things they can gain from no oth­er wiz­ard.”

Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered Volde­mort over the top of his own gob­let for a while be­fore speak­ing.

“Yes, I cer­tain­ly do know that you have seen and done much since leav­ing us,” he said qui­et­ly. “Ru­mors of your do­in­gs have reached your old school, Tom. I should be sor­ry to be­lieve half of them.”

Volde­mort’s ex­pres­sion re­mained im­pas­sive as he said, “Great­ness in­spires en­vy, en­vy en­gen­ders spite, spite spawns lies. You must know this, Dum­ble­dore.”

“You call it ‘great­ness,’ what you have been do­ing, do you?” asked Dum­ble­dore del­icate­ly.

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Volde­mort, and his eyes seemed to burn red. “I have ex­per­iment­ed; I have pushed the bound­aries of mag­ic fur­ther, per­haps, than they have ev­er been pushed —”

“Of some kinds of mag­ic,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed him qui­et­ly. “Of some. Of oth­ers, you re­main . . . for­give me . . . woe­ful­ly ig­no­rant.”

For the first time, Volde­mort smiled. It was a taut leer, an evil thing, more threat­en­ing than a look of rage.

“The old ar­gu­ment,” he said soft­ly. “But noth­ing I have seen in the world has sup­port­ed your fa­mous pro­nounce­ments that love is more pow­er­ful than my kind of mag­ic, Dum­ble­dore.”

“Per­haps you have been look­ing in the wrong places,” sug­gest­ed Dum­ble­dore.

“Well, then, what bet­ter place to start my fresh re­search­es than here, at Hog­warts?” said Volde­mort. “Will you let me re­turn? Will you let me share my knowl­edge with your stu­dents? I place my­self and my tal­ents at your dis­pos­al. I am yours to com­mand.”

Dum­ble­dore raised his eye­brows. “And what will be­come of those whom you com­mand? What will hap­pen to those who call them­selves — or so ru­mor has it — the Death Eaters?”

Har­ry could tell that Volde­mort had not ex­pect­ed Dum­ble­dore to know this name; he saw Volde­mort’s eyes flash red again and the slit­like nos­trils flare.

“My friends,” he said, af­ter a mo­ment’s pause, “will car­ry on with­out me, I am sure.”

“I am glad to hear that you con­sid­er them friends,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I was un­der the im­pres­sion that they are more in the or­der of ser­vants.”

“You are mis­tak­en,” said Volde­mort.

“Then if I were to go to the Hog’s Head tonight, I would not find a group of them — Nott, Rosier, Muld­ber, Do­lo­hov — await­ing your re­turn? De­vot­ed friends in­deed, to trav­el this far with you on a snowy night, mere­ly to wish you luck as you at­tempt­ed to se­cure a teach­ing post.”

There could be no doubt that Dum­ble­dore’s de­tailed knowl­edge of those with whom he was trav­el­ing was even less wel­come to Volde­mort; how­ev­er, he ral­lied al­most at once.

“You are om­ni­sci­ent as ev­er, Dum­ble­dore.”

“Oh no, mere­ly friend­ly with the lo­cal bar­men,” said Dum­ble­dore light­ly. “Now, Tom . . .”

Dum­ble­dore set down his emp­ty glass and drew him­self up in his seat, the tips of his fin­gers to­geth­er in a very char­ac­ter­is­tic ges­ture.

“Let us speak open­ly. Why have you come here tonight, sur­round­ed by hench­men, to re­quest a job we both know you do not want?”

Volde­mort looked cold­ly sur­prised. “A job I do not want? On the con­trary, Dum­ble­dore, I want it very much.”

“Oh, you want to come back to Hog­warts, but you do not want to teach any more than you want­ed to when you were eigh­teen. What is it you’re af­ter, Tom? Why not try an open re­quest for once?”

Volde­mort sneered. “If you do not want to give me a job —”

“Of course I don’t,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And I don’t think for a mo­ment you ex­pect­ed me to. Nev­er­the­less, you came here, you asked, you must have had a pur­pose.”

Volde­mort stood up. He looked less like Tom Rid­dle than ev­er, his fea­tures thick with rage. “This is your fi­nal word?”

“It is,” said Dum­ble­dore, al­so stand­ing.

“Then we have noth­ing more to say to each oth­er.”

“No, noth­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore, and a great sad­ness filled his face. “The time is long gone when I could fright­en you with a burn­ing wardrobe and force you to make re­pay­ment for your crimes. But I wish I could, Tom. … I wish I could. . . .”

For a sec­ond, Har­ry was on the verge of shout­ing a point­less warn­ing: He was sure that Volde­mort’s hand had twitched to­ward his pock­et and his wand; but then the mo­ment had passed, Volde­mort had turned away, the door was clos­ing, and he was gone.

Har­ry felt Dum­ble­dore’s hand close over his arm again and mo­ments lat­er, they were stand­ing to­geth­er on al­most the same spot, but there was no snow build­ing on the win­dow ledge, and Dum­ble­dore’s hand was black­ened and dead­look­ing once more.

“Why?” said Har­ry at once, look­ing up in­to Dum­ble­dore’s face. “Why did he come back? Did you ev­er find out?”

“I have ideas,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but no more than that.”

“What ideas, sir?”

“I shall tell you, Har­ry, when you have re­trieved that mem­ory from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“When you have that last piece of the jig­saw, ev­ery­thing will, I hope, be clear … to both of us.”

Har­ry was still burn­ing with cu­rios­ity and even though Dum­ble­dore had walked to the door and was hold­ing it open for him, he did not move at once.

“Was he af­ter the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job again, sir? He didn’t say. …”

“Oh, he def­inite­ly want­ed the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job,” said Dum­ble­dore. “The af­ter­math of our lit­tle meet­ing proved that. You see, we have nev­er been able to keep a De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er for longer than a year since I re­fused the post to Lord Volde­mort.”





