Chapter 24: Sectumsempra


Ex­haust­ed but de­light­ed with his night’s work, Har­ry told Ron and Hermione ev­ery­thing that had hap­pened dur­ing next morn­ing’s Charms les­son (hav­ing first cast the Muf­flia­to spell up­on those near­est them). They were both sat­is­fy­ing­ly im­pressed by the way he had whee­dled the mem­ory out of Slughorn and pos­itive­ly awed when he told them about Volde­mort’s Hor­crux­es and Dum­ble­dore’s promise to take Har­ry along, should he find an­oth­er one.

“Wow,” said Ron, when Har­ry had fi­nal­ly fin­ished telling them ev­ery­thing; Ron was wav­ing his wand very vague­ly in the di­rec­tion of the ceil­ing with­out pay­ing the slight­est bit of at­ten­tion to what he was do­ing. “Wow. You’re ac­tu­al­ly go­ing to go with Dum­ble­dore . . . and try and de­stroy . . . wow.”

“Ron, you’re mak­ing it snow,” said Hermione pa­tient­ly, grab­bing his wrist and re­di­rect­ing his wand away from the ceil­ing from which, sure enough, large white flakes had start­ed to fall. Laven­der Brown, Har­ry no­ticed, glared at Hermione from a neigh­bor­ing ta­ble through very red eyes, and Hermione im­me­di­ate­ly let go of Rons arm.

“Oh yeah,” said Ron, look­ing down at his shoul­ders in vague sur­prise. “Sor­ry… looks like we’ve all got hor­ri­ble dan­druff now. …”

He brushed some of the fake snow off Hermiones shoul­der Laven­der burst in­to tears. Ron looked im­mense­ly guilty and turned his back on her.

“We split up,” he told Har­ry out of the cor­ner of his mouth, “Last night. When she saw me com­ing out of the dor­mi­to­ry with Hermione. Ob­vi­ous­ly she couldn’t see you, so she thought it had just been the two of us.”

“Ah,” said Har­ry. “Well — you don’t mind it’s over, do you?”, “No,” Ron ad­mit­ted. “It was pret­ty bad while she was yelling, but at least I didn’t have to fin­ish it.”

“Cow­ard,” said Hermione, though she looked amused. “Well, it was a bad night for ro­mance all around. Gin­ny and Dean split up too, Har­ry.”

Har­ry thought there was a rather know­ing look in her eye as she told him that, but she could not pos­si­bly know that his in­sides were sud­den­ly danc­ing the con­ga. Keep­ing his face as im­mo­bile and his voice as in­dif­fer­ent as he could, he asked, “How come?”

“Oh, some­thing re­al­ly sil­ly . . . She said he was al­ways try­ing to help her through the por­trait hole, like she couldn’t climb in her­self . . . but they’ve been a bit rocky for ages.”

Har­ry glanced over at Dean on the oth­er side of the class­room. He cer­tain­ly looked un­hap­py.

“Of course, this puts you in a bit of a dilem­ma, doesn’t it?” said Hermione.

“What d’you mean?” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“The Quid­ditch team,” said Hermione. “If Gin­nyand Dean aren’t speak­ing . . .”

“Oh — oh yeah,” said Har­ry.

“Flitwick,” said Ron in a warn­ing tone. The tiny lit­tle Charms mas­ter was bob­bing his way to­ward them, and Hermione was the on­ly one who had man­aged to turn vine­gar in­to wine; her glass flask was full of deep crim­son liq­uid, where­as the con­tents of Har­ry’s and Ron’s were still murky brown.

“Now, now, boys,” squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick re­proach­ful­ly. “A lit­tle less talk, a lit­tle more ac­tion . . . Let me see you try. . . .”

To­geth­er they raised their wands, con­cen­trat­ing with all their might, and point­ed them at their flasks. Har­ry’s vine­gar turned to ice; Rons flask ex­plod­ed.

“Yes … for home­work,” said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, reemerg­ing from un­der the ta­ble and pulling shards of glass out of the top of his hat, “prac­tice.”

They had one of their rare joint free pe­ri­ods af­ter Charms and walked back to the com­mon room to­geth­er. Ron seemed to be pos­itive­ly light­heart­ed about the end of his re­la­tion­ship with Laven­der, and Hermione seemed cheery too, though when asked what she was grin­ning about she sim­ply said, “It’s a nice day.” Nei­ther of them seemed to have no­ticed that a fierce bat­tle was rag­ing in­side Har­ry’s brain:

She’s Rons sis­ter.

But she’s ditched Dean!

She’s still Rons sis­ter.

I’m his best mate!

That’ll make it worse.

If I talked to him first —

He’d hit you.

What if I don’t care?

He’s your best mate!

Har­ry bare­ly no­ticed that they were climb­ing through the por­trait hole in­to the sun­ny com­mon room, and on­ly vague­ly reg­is­tered the small group of sev­enth years clus­tered to­geth­er there, un­til Hermione cried, “Katie! You’re back! Are you okay?”

Har­ry stared: It was in­deed Katie Bell, look­ing com­plete­ly healthy and sur­round­ed by her ju­bi­lant friends.

“I’m re­al­ly well!” she said hap­pi­ly. “They let me out of St. Mun­gos on Mon­day, I had a cou­ple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came back here this morn­ing. Leanne was just telling me about McLaggen and the last match, Har­ry. . . .”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “well, now you’re back and Ron’s fit, we’ll have a de­cent chance of thrash­ing Raven­claw, which means we could still be in the run­ning for the Cup. Lis­ten, Katie . . .”

He had to put the ques­tion to her at once; his cu­rios­ity even drove Gin­ny tem­po­rar­ily from his brain. He dropped his voice as Katie’s friends start­ed gath­er­ing up their things; ap­par­ent­ly they were late for Trans­fig­ura­tion.

“. . . that neck­lace . . . can you re­mem­ber who gave it to you now?”

“No,” said Katie, shak­ing her head rue­ful­ly. “Ev­ery­one’s been ask­ing me, but I haven’t got a clue. The last thing I re­mem­ber was walk­ing in­to the ladies’ in the Three Broom­sticks.”

“You def­inite­ly went in­to the bath­room, then?” said Hermione.

“Well, I know I pushed open the door,” said Katie, “so I sup­pose who­ev­er Im­periused me was stand­ing just be­hind it. Af­ter that, my mem­ory’s a blank un­til about two weeks ago in St. Mun­go’s. Lis­ten, I’d bet­ter go, I wouldn’t put it past McG­ona­gall to give me lines even if it is my first day back. …”

She caught up her bag and books and hur­ried af­ter her friends, leav­ing Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to sit down at a win­dow ta­ble and pon­der what she had told them.

“So it must have been a girl or a wom­an who gave Katie the neck­lace,” said Hermione, “to be in the ladies’ bath­room.”

“Or some­one who looked like a girl or a wom­an,” said Har­ry. “Don’t for­get, there was a caul­dron full of Polyjuice Po­tion at Hog­warts. We know some of it got stolen. . . .”

In his mind’s eye, he watched a pa­rade of Crabbes and Goyles prance past, all trans­formed in­to girls.

“I think I’m go­ing to take an­oth­er swig of Fe­lix,” said Har­ry, “and have a go at the Room of Re­quire­ment again.”

“That would be a com­plete waste of po­tion,” said Hermione flat­ly, putting down the copy of Spell­mans Syl­labary she had just tak­en out of her bag. “Luck can on­ly get you so far, Har­ry. The sit­ua­tion with Slughorn was dif­fer­ent; you al­ways had the abil­ity to per­suade him, you just need­ed to tweak the cir­cum­stances a bit. Luck isn’t enough to get you through a pow­er­ful en­chant­ment, though. Don’t go wast­ing the rest of that po­tion! You’ll need all the luck you can get if Dum­ble­dore takes you along with him …” She dropped her voice to a whis­per.

“Couldn’t we make some more?” Ron asked Har­ry, ig­nor­ing Hermione. “It’d be great to have a stock of it. … Have a look in the book… “

Har­ry pulled his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bap, and looked up Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

“Blimey, its se­ri­ous­ly com­pli­cat­ed,” he said, run­ning an eye down the list of in­gre­di­ents. “And it takes six months.,. You’ve got to let it stew. …”

“Typ­ical,” said Ron.

Har­ry was about to put his book away again when he no­ticed the cor­ner of a page fold­ed down; turn­ing to it, he saw the Sec­tum­sem­pra spell, cap­tioned “For En­emies,” that he had marked a few weeks pre­vi­ous­ly. He had still not found out what it did, main­ly be­cause he did not want to test it around Hermione, but he was con­sid­er­ing try­ing it out on McLaggen next time he came up be­hind him un­awares.

The on­ly per­son who was not par­tic­ular­ly pleased to see Katie Bell back at school was Dean Thomas, be­cause he would no longer be re­quired to fill her place as Chas­er. He took the blow sto­ical­ly enough when Har­ry told him, mere­ly grunt­ing and shrug­ging, but Har­ry had the dis­tinct feel­ing as he walked away that Dean and Sea­mus were mut­ter­ing mu­ti­nous­ly be­hind his back.

The fol­low­ing fort­night saw the best Quid­ditch prac­tices Har­ry had known as Cap­tain. His team was so pleased to be rid of McLaggen, so glad to have Katie back at last, that they were fly­ing ex­treme­ly well.

Gin­ny did not seem at all up­set about the breakup with Dean; on the con­trary, she was the life and soul of the team. Her im­ita­tions of Ron anx­ious­ly bob­bing up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaf­fle sped to­ward him, or of Har­ry bel­low­ing or­ders at McLaggen be­fore be­ing knocked out cold, kept them all high­ly amused. Har­ry, laugh­ing with the oth­ers, was glad to have an in­no­cent rea­son to look at Gin­ny; he had re­ceived sev­er­al more Bludger in­ju­ries dur­ing prac­tice be­cause he had not been keep­ing his eyes on the Snitch.

The bat­tle still raged in­side his head: Gin­ny or Ron? Some­times he thought that the post­Laven­der Ron might not mind too much if he asked Gin­ny out, but then he re­mem­bered Ron’s ex­pres­sion when he had seen her kiss­ing Dean, and was sure that Ron would con­sid­er it base treach­ery if Har­ry so much as held her hand. . . .

Yet Har­ry could not help him­self talk­ing to Gin­ny, laugh­ing with her, walk­ing back from prac­tice with her; how­ev­er much his con­sci­ence ached, he found him­self won­der­ing how best to get her on her own. It would have been ide­al if Slughorn had giv­en an­oth­er of his lit­tle par­ties, for Ron would not be around — but un­for­tu­nate­ly, Slughorn seemed to have giv­en them up. Once or twice Har­ry con­sid­ered ask­ing for Hermione’s help, but he did not think he could stand see­ing the smug look on her face; he thought he caught it some­times when Hermione spot­ted him star­ing at Gin­ny or laugh­ing at her jokes. And to com­pli­cate mat­ters, he had the nag­ging wor­ry that if he didn’t do it, some­body else was sure to ask Gin­ny out soon: He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact that she was too pop­ular for her own good.

All in all, the temp­ta­tion to take an­oth­er gulp of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis was be­com­ing stronger by the day, for sure­ly this was a case for, as Hermione put it, “tweak­ing the cir­cum­stances”? The balmy days slid gen­tly through May, and Ron seemed to be there at Har­ry’s shoul­der ev­ery time he saw Gin­ny. Har­ry found him­self long­ing for a stroke of luck that would some­how cause Ron to re­al­ize that noth­ing would make him hap­pi­er than his best friend and his sis­ter falling for each oth­er and to leave them alone to­geth­er for longer than a few sec­onds. There seemed no chance of ei­ther while the fi­nal Quid­ditch game of the sea­son was loom­ing; Ron want­ed to talk tac­tics with Har­ry all the time and had lit­tle thought for any­thing else.

Ron was not unique in this re­spect; in­ter­est in the Gryffind­or­Raven­claw game was run­ning ex­treme­ly high through­out the school, for the match would de­cide the Cham­pi­on­ship, which was still wide open. If Gryffind­or beat Raven­claw by a mar­gin of three hun­dred points (a tall or­der, and yet Har­ry had nev­er known his team to fly bet­ter) then they would win the Cham­pi­on­ship. If they won by less than three hun­dred points, they would come sec­ond to Raven­claw; if they lost by a hun­dred points they would be third be­hind Huf­flepuff and if they lost by more than a hun­dred, they would be in fourth place and no­body, Har­ry thought, would ev­er, ev­er let him for­get that it had been he who had cap­tained Gryffind­or to their first bot­to­mof­theta­ble de­feat in two cen­turies.

The runup to this cru­cial match had all the usu­al fea­tures: mem­bers of ri­val Hous­es at­tempt­ing to in­tim­idate op­pos­ing teams in the cor­ri­dors; un­pleas­ant chants about in­di­vid­ual play­ers be­ing re­hearsed loud­ly as they passed; the team mem­bers them­selves ei­ther swag­ger­ing around en­joy­ing all the at­ten­tion or else dash­ing in­to bath­rooms be­tween class­es to throw up. Some­how, the game had be­come in­ex­tri­ca­bly linked in Har­ry’s mind with suc­cess or fail­ure in his plans for Gin­ny. He could not help feel­ing that if they won by more than three hun­dred points, the scenes of eu­pho­ria and a nice loud af­ter­match par­ty might be just as good as a hearty swig of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

In the midst of all his pre­oc­cu­pa­tions, Har­ry had not for­got­ten his oth­er am­bi­tion: find­ing out what Mal­foy was up to in the Room of Re­quire­ment. He was still check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and as he was un­able to lo­cate Mal­foy on it, de­duced that Mal­foy was still spend­ing plen­ty of time with­in the room. Al­though Har­ry was los­ing hope that he would ev­er suc­ceed in get­ting in­side the Room of Re­quire­ment, he at­tempt­ed it when­ev­er he was in the vicin­ity, but no mat­ter how he re­word­ed his re­quest, the wall re­mained firm­ly door­less.

A few days be­fore the match against Raven­claw, Har­ry found him­self walk­ing down to din­ner alone from the com­mon room, Ron hav­ing rushed off in­to a near­by bath­room to throw up yet again, and Hermione hav­ing dashed off to see Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor about a mis­take she thought she might have made in her last Arith­man­cy es­say. More out of habit than any­thing, Har­ry made his usu­al de­tour along the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor, check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map as he went. For a mo­ment he could not find Mal­foy any­where and as­sumed he must in­deed be in­side the Room of Re­quire­ment again, but then he saw Mal­foy’s tiny, la­beled dot stand­ing in a boys’ bath­room on the floor be­low, ac­com­pa­nied, not by Crabbe or Goyle, but by Moan­ing Myr­tle.

Har­ry on­ly stopped star­ing at this un­like­ly cou­pling when he walked right in­to a suit of ar­mor. The loud crash brought him out of his rev­er­ie; hur­ry­ing from the scene lest Filch turn up, he dashed down the mar­ble stair­case and along the pas­sage­way be­low. Out­side the bath­room, he pressed his ear against the door. He could not hear any­thing. He very qui­et­ly pushed the door open.

Dra­co Mal­foy was stand­ing with his back to the door, his hands clutch­ing ei­ther side of the sink, his white­blond head bowed.

“Don’t,” crooned Moan­ing Myr­tle’s voice from one of the cu­bi­cles. “Don’t. . . tell me what’s wrong … I can help you. . . .”

“No one can help me,” said Mal­foy. His whole body was shak­ing. “I can’t do it. … I can’t. … It won’t work . . . and un­less 1 do it soon … he says he’ll kill me. …”

And Har­ry re­al­ized, with a shock so huge it seemed to root him to the spot, that Mal­foy was cry­ing — ac­tu­al­ly cry­ing — tears stream­ing down his pale face in­to the grimy basin. Mal­foy gasped and gulped and then, with a great shud­der, looked up in­to flu­cracked mir­ror and saw Har­ry star­ing at him over his shoul­der.

Mal­foy wheeled around, draw­ing his wand. In­stinc­tive­ly, Har­ry pulled out his own. Mal­foy’s hex missed Har­ry by inch­es, shat­ter­ing the lamp on the wall be­side him; Har­ry threw him­self side­ways, thought Lev­icor­pus! and flicked his wand, but Mal­foy blocked the jinx and raised his wand for an­oth­er —

“No! No! Stop it!” squealed Moan­ing Myr­tle, her voice echo­ing loud­ly around the tiled room. “Stop! STOP!”

There was a loud bang and the bin be­hind Har­ry ex­plod­ed; Har­ry at­tempt­ed a Le­gLock­er Curse that back­fired off the wall be­hind Mal­foy’s ear and smashed the cis­tern be­neath Moan­ing Myr­tle, who screamed loud­ly; wa­ter poured ev­ery­where and Har­ry slipped as Mal­foy, his face con­tort­ed, cried, “Cru­ci —”

“SEC­TUM­SEM­PRA!” bel­lowed Har­ry from the floor, wav­ing his wand wild­ly.

Blood spurt­ed from Mal­foy’s face and chest as though he had been slashed with an in­vis­ible sword. He stag­gered back­ward and col­lapsed on­to the wa­ter­logged floor with a great splash, his wand falling from his limp right hand.

“No —” gasped Har­ry.

Slip­ping and stag­ger­ing, Har­ry got to his feet and plunged to­ward Mal­foy, whose face was now shin­ing scar­let, his white hands scrab­bling at his blood­soaked chest.

“No — I didn’t —”

Har­ry did not know what he was say­ing; he fell to his knees be­side Mal­foy, who was shak­ing un­con­trol­lably in a pool of his own blood. Moan­ing Myr­tle let out a deaf­en­ing scream: “MUR­DER! MUR­DER IN THE BATH­ROOM! MUR­DER!”

The door banged open be­hind Har­ry and he looked up, ter­ri­fied: Snape had burst in­to the room, his face livid. Push­ing Har­ry rough­ly aside, he knelt over Mal­foy, drew his wand, and traced it over the deep wounds Har­ry’s curse had made, mut­ter­ing an in­can­ta­tion that sound­ed al­most like song. The flow of blood seemed to ease; Snape wiped the residue from Mal­foy’s face and re­peat­ed his spell. Now the wounds seemed to be knit­ting.

Har­ry was still watch­ing, hor­ri­fied by what he had done, bare­ly aware that he too was soaked in blood and wa­ter. Moan­ing Myr­tle was still sob­bing and wail­ing over­head. When Snape had per­formed his coun­ter­curse for the third time, he halflift­ed Mal­foy in­to a stand­ing po­si­tion.

“You need the hos­pi­tal wing. There may be a cer­tain amount of scar­ring, but if you take dit­tany im­me­di­ate­ly we might avoid even that.. . . Come….”

He sup­port­ed Mal­foy across the bath­room, turn­ing at the door to say in a voice of cold fury, “And you, Pot­ter . . . You wait here for me.”

It did not oc­cur to Har­ry for a sec­ond to dis­obey. He stood up slow­ly, shak­ing, and looked down at the wet floor. There were blood­stains float­ing like crim­son flow­ers across its sur­face. He could not even find it in him­self to tell Moan­ing Myr­tle to be qui­et, as she con­tin­ued to wail and sob with in­creas­ing­ly ev­ident en­joy­ment.

Snape re­turned ten min­utes lat­er. He stepped in­to the bath­room and closed the door be­hind him.

“Go,” he said to Myr­tle, and she swooped back in­to her toi­let at once, leav­ing a ring­ing si­lence be­hind her.

“I didn’t mean it to hap­pen,” said Har­ry at once. His voice echoed in the cold, wa­tery space. “I didn’t know what that spell did.”

But Snape ig­nored this. “Ap­par­ent­ly I un­der­es­ti­mat­ed you, Pot­ter,” he said qui­et­ly. “Who would have thought you knew such Dark Mag­ic? Who taught you that spell?”

“I — read about it some­where.”

“Where?”

“It was — a li­brary book,” Har­ry in­vent­ed wild­ly. “I can’t re­mem­ber what it was call —”

“Liar,” said Snape. Har­ry’s throat went dry. He knew what Snape was go­ing to do and he had nev­er been able to pre­vent it. …

The bath­room seemed to shim­mer be­fore his eyes; he strug­gled to block out all thought, but try as he might, the Half­Blood Prince’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing swam hazi­ly to the fore­front of his mind.

And then he was star­ing at Snape again, in the midst of this wrecked, soaked bath­room. He stared in­to Snape’s black eyes, hop­ing against hope that Snape had not seen what he feared, but —

“Bring me your school­bag,” said Snape soft­ly, “and all of your school­books. All of them. Bring them to me here. Now!”

There was no point ar­gu­ing. Har­ry turned at once and splashed

out of the bath­room. Once in the cor­ri­dor, he broke in­to a run to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er. Most peo­ple were walk­ing the oth­er way; they gaped at him, drenched in wa­ter and blood, but he an­swered none of the ques­tions fired at him as he ran past.

He felt stunned; it was as though a beloved pet had turned sud­den­ly sav­age; what had the Prince been think­ing to copy such a spell in­to his book? And what would hap­pen when Snape saw it? Would he tell Slughorn — Har­ry’s stom­ach churned — how Har­ry had been achiev­ing such good re­sults in Po­tions all year? Would he con­fis­cate or de­stroy the book that had taught Har­ry so much . . . the book that had be­come a kind of guide and friend? Har­ry could not let it hap­pen. . . . He could not. . .

“Where’ve you — ? Why are you soak­ing — ? Is that blood.” Ron was stand­ing at the top of the stairs, look­ing be­wil­dered at , the sight of Har­ry.

“I need your book,” Har­ry pant­ed. “Your Po­tions book. Quick . . . give it to me . . .”

“But what about the Half­Blood —”

“I’ll ex­plain lat­er!”

Ron pulled his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and hand­ed it over; Har­ry sprint­ed off past him and back to the com­mon room. Here, he seized his school­bag, ig­nor­ing the amazed looks of sev­er­al peo­ple who had al­ready fin­ished their din­ner, threw him­self back out of the por­trait hole, and hur­tled off along the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor.

He skid­ded to a halt be­side the tapestry of danc­ing trolls, closed his eyes, and be­gan to walk.

I need a place to hide my book. . . . I need a place to hide my book. . . . I need a place to hide my book. …

Three times he walked up and down in front of the stretch of blank wall. When he opened his eyes, there it was at last: the door to the Room of Re­quire­ment. Har­ry wrenched it open, flung him self in­side, and slammed it shut.

He gasped. De­spite his haste, his pan­ic, his fear of what await­ed him back in the bath­room, he could not help but be over­awed by what he was look­ing at. He was stand­ing in a room the size of a large cathe­dral, whose high win­dows were send­ing shafts of light down up­on what looked like a city with tow­er­ing walls, built of what Har­ry knew must be ob­jects hid­den by gen­er­ations of Hog­warts in­hab­itants. There were al­ley­ways and roads bor­dered by teter­ing piles of bro­ken and dam­aged fur­ni­ture, stowed away, per­haps, to hide the ev­idence of mis­han­dled mag­ic, or else hid­den by cas­tleproud house­elves. There were thou­sands and thou­sands of books, no doubt banned or graf­fi­tied or stolen. There were winged cat­apults and Fanged Fris­bees, some still with enough life in them to hov­er half­heart­ed­ly over the moun­tains of oth­er for­bid­den items; there were chipped bot­tles of con­gealed po­tions, hats, jew­els, cloaks; there were what looked like drag­on eggshells, corked bot­tles whose con­tents still shim­mered evil­ly, sev­er­al rust­ing swords, and a heavy, blood­stained axe.

Har­ry hur­ried for­ward in­to one of the many al­ley­ways be­tween all this hid­den trea­sure. He turned right past an enor­mous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a left at the bro­ken Van­ish­ing Cab­in­et in which Mon­tague had got lost the pre­vi­ous year, fi­nal­ly paus­ing be­side a large cup­board that seemed to have had acid thrown at its blis­tered sur­face. He opened one of the cup­board’s creak­ing doors: It had al­ready been used as a hid­ing place for some­thing in a cage that had long since died; its skele­ton had five legs. He stuffed the Half­Blood Princes book be­hind the cage and slammed the door. He paused for a mo­ment, his heart thump­ing hor­ri­bly, gaz­ing around at all the clut­ter. . . . Would he be able to find this spot again amidst all this junk? Seiz­ing the chipped bust of an ug­ly old war­lock from on top of a near­by crate, he stood it on top of the cup­board where the book was now hid­den, perched a dusty old wig and a tar­nished tiara on the stat­ues head to make it more dis­tinc­tive, then sprint­ed back through the al­ley­ways of hid­den junk as fast as he could go, back to the door, back out on­to the cor­ri­dor, where he slammed the door be­hind him, and it turned at once back in­to stone.

Har­ry ran flatout to­ward the bath­room on the floor be­low, cram­ming Ron’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing in­to his bag as he did so. A minute lat­er, he was back in front of Snape, who held out his hand word­less­ly for Har­ry’s school­bag. Har­ry hand­ed it over, pant­ing, a sear­ing pain in his chest, and wait­ed.

One by one, Snape ex­tract­ed Har­rys books and ex­am­in­ed them., Fi­nal­ly, the on­ly book left was the Po­tions book, which he looked at very care­ful­ly be­fore speak­ing.

“This is your copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, is it, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, still breath­ing hard.

“You’re quite sure of that, are you, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, with a touch more de­fi­an­ce.

“This is the copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing that you pur­chased from Flour­ish and Blotts?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry firm­ly.

“Then why,” asked Snape, “does it have the name ‘Roonil Wa­zlib’ writ­ten in­side the front cov­er?”

Har­rys heart missed a beat. “That’s my nick­name,” he said. ‘

“Your nick­name,” re­peat­ed Snape. ; “Yeah . . . that’s what my friends call me,” said Har­ry.

“I un­der­stand what a nick­name is,” said Snape. The cold, black eyes were bor­ing once more in­to Har­ry’s; he tried not to look in­to them. Close your mind. . . . Close your mind. . . . But he had nev­er learned how to do it prop­er­ly. . . .

“Do you know what I think, Pot­ter?” said Snape, very qui­et­ly. “I think that you are a liar and a cheat and that you de­serve de­ten­tion with me ev­ery Sat­ur­day un­til the end of term. “What do you think, Pot­ter?”

“I — I don’t agree, sir,” said Har­ry, still re­fus­ing to look in­to Snape’s eyes.

“Well, we shall see how you feel af­ter your de­ten­tions,” said Snape. “Ten o’clock Sat­ur­day morn­ing, Pot­ter. My of­fice.”

“But sir . . .” said Har­ry, look­ing up des­per­ate­ly. “Quid­ditch . . . the last match of the …”

“Ten o’clock,” whis­pered Snape, with a smile that showed his yel­low teeth. “Poor Gryffind­or. . . fourth place this year, I fear …”

And he left the bath­room with­out an­oth­er word, leav­ing Har­ry to stare in­to the cracked mir­ror, feel­ing sick­er, he was sure, than Ron had ev­er felt in his life.

“I won’t say ‘I told you so,’” said Hermione, an hour lat­er in the com­mon room.

“Leave it, Hermione,” said Ron an­gri­ly.

Har­ry had nev­er made it to din­ner; he had no ap­pe­tite at all. He had just fin­ished telling Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny what had hap­pened, not that there seemed to have been much need. The news had trav­eled very fast: Ap­par­ent­ly Moan­ing Myr­tle had tak­en it up­on her­self to pop up in ev­ery bath­room in the cas­tle to tell the sto­ry; Mal­foy had al­ready been vis­it­ed in the hos­pi­tal wing by Pan­sy Parkin­son, who had lost no time in vil­ify­ing Har­ry far and wide, and Snape had told the staff pre­cise­ly what had hap­pened. Har­ry had al­ready been called out of the com­mon room to en­dure fif­teen high­ly un­pleas­ant min­utes in the com­pa­ny of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who had told him he was lucky not to have been ex­pelled and that she sup­port­ed whole­heart­ed­ly Snape’s pun­ish­ment of de­ten­tion ev­ery Sat­ur­day un­til the end of term.

“I told you there was some­thing wrong with that Prince per­son,” Hermione said, ev­ident­ly un­able to stop her­self. “And I was right, wasn’t I.”

“No, I don’t think you were,” said Har­ry stub­born­ly.

He was hav­ing a bad enough time with­out Hermione lec­tur­ing him; the looks on the Gryffind­or team’s faces when he had told them he would not be able to play on Sat­ur­day had been the worst pun­ish­ment of all. He could feel Gin­ny’s eyes on him now but did not meet them; he did not want to see dis­ap­point­ment or anger there. He had just told her that she would be play­ing Seek­er on Sat­ur­day and that Dean would be re­join­ing the team as Chas­er in her place. Per­haps, if they won, Gin­ny and Dean would make up dur­ing the post­match eu­pho­ria. . . . The thought went through Har­ry like an icy knife. . . .

“Har­ry,” said Hermione, “how can you still stick up for that book when that spell —”

“Will you stop harp­ing on about the book!” snapped Har­ry. “The Prince on­ly copied it out! It’s not like he was ad­vis­ing any­one to use it! For all we know, he was mak­ing a note of some­thing that had been used against him!”

“I don’t be­lieve this,” said Hermione. “You’re ac­tu­al­ly de­fend­ing—

“I’m not de­fend­ing what I did!” said Har­ry quick­ly. “I wish 1 ; hadn’t done it, and not just be­cause I’ve got about a dozen de­ten­tions. You know I wouldn’t've used a spell like that, not even on Mal­foy, but you can’t blame the Prince, he hadn’t writ­ten ‘try this out, it’s re­al­ly good’ — he was just mak­ing notes for him­self, wasn’t he, not for any­one else. . . .”

“Are you telling me,” said Hermione, “that you’re go­ing to go back — ?”

“And get the book? Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry force­ful­ly. “Lis­ten, with­out the Prince I’d nev­er have won the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. I’d nev­er have known how to save Ron from poi­son­ing, I’d nev­er have —”

“— got a rep­uta­tion for Po­tions bril­liance you don’t de­serve,” said Hermione nas­ti­ly.

“Give it a rest, Hermione!” said Gin­ny, and Har­ry was so amazed, so grate­ful, he looked up. “By the sound of it, Mal­foy was try­ing to use an Un­for­giv­able Curse, you should be glad Har­ry had some­thing good up his sleeve!”

“Well, of course I’m glad Har­ry wasn’t cursed!” said Hermione, clear­ly stung. “But you can’t call that Sec­tum­sem­pra spell good, Gin­ny, look where it’s land­ed him! And I’d have thought, see­ing what this has done to your chances in the match —”

“Oh, don’t start act­ing as though you un­der­stand Quid­ditch,” snapped Gin­ny, “you’ll on­ly em­bar­rass your­self.”

Har­ry and Ron stared: Hermione and Gin­ny, who had al­ways got on to­geth­er very well, were now sit­ting with their arms fold­ed, glar­ing in op­po­site di­rec­tions. Ron looked ner­vous­ly at Har­ry, then snatched up a book at ran­dom and hid be­hind it. Har­ry, how­ev­er,

lit­tle though he knew he de­served it, felt un­be­liev­ably cheer­ful all of a sud­den, even though none of them spoke again for the rest of the evening.

His light­heart­ed­ness was short­lived. There were Slytherin taunts to be en­dured next day, not to men­tion much anger from fel­low Gryffind­ors, who were most un­hap­py that their Cap­tain had got him­self banned from the fi­nal match of the sea­son. By Sat­ur­day morn­ing, what­ev­er he might have told Hermione, Har­ry would have glad­ly ex­changed all the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis in the world to be walk­ing down to the Quid­ditch pitch with Ron, Gin­ny, and the oth­ers. It was al­most un­bear­able to turn away from the mass of stu­dents stream­ing out in­to the sun­shine, all of them wear­ing rosettes and hats and bran­dish­ing ban­ners and scarves, to de­scend the stone steps in­to the dun­geons and walk un­til the dis­tant sounds of the crowd were quite oblit­er­at­ed, know­ing that he would not be able to hear a word of com­men­tary or a cheer or groan.

“Ah, Pot­ter,” said Snape, when Har­ry had knocked on his door and en­tered the un­pleas­ant­ly fa­mil­iar of­fice that Snape, de­spite teach­ing floors above now, had not va­cat­ed; it was as dim­ly lit as ev­er and the same slimy dead ob­jects were sus­pend­ed in col­ored po­tions all around the walls. Omi­nous­ly, there were many cob­webbed box­es piled on a ta­ble where Har­ry was clear­ly sup­posed to sit; they had an au­ra of te­dious, hard, and point­less work about them.

“Mr. Filch has been look­ing for some­one to clear out these old files,” said Snape soft­ly. “They are the records of oth­er Hog­warts wrong­do­ers and their pun­ish­ments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the cards have suf­fered dam­age from mice, we would like you to copy out the crimes and pun­ish­ments afresh and, mak­ing sure that they are in al­pha­bet­ical or­der, re­place them in the box­es. You will not use mag­ic.”

“Right, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, with as much con­tempt as he could put in­to the last three syl­la­bles.

“I thought you could start,” said Snape, a ma­li­cious smile on his lips, “with box­es one thou­sand and twelve to one thou­sand and fiftysix. You will find some fa­mil­iar names in there, which should add in­ter­est to the task. Here, you see . . .”

He pulled out a card from one of the top­most box­es with a flour­ish and read, “James Pot­ter and Sir­ius Black. Ap­pre­hend­ed us­ing an il­le­gal hex up­on Bertram Aubrey. Aubreys head twice nor­mal size. Dou­ble de­ten­tion.” Snape sneered. “It must be such a com­fort­ing thing that, though they are gone, a record of their great achieve­ments re­mains.”

Har­ry felt the fa­mil­iar boil­ing sen­sa­tion in the pit of his stom­ach. Bit­ing his tongue to pre­vent him­self re­tal­iat­ing, he sat down in front of the box­es and pulled one to­ward him.

It was, as Har­ry had an­tic­ipat­ed, use­less, bor­ing work, punc­tu­at­ed (as Snape had clear­ly planned) with the reg­ular jolt in the stom­ach that meant he had just read his fa­ther or Sir­ius’s names, usu­al­ly cou­pled to­geth­er in var­ious pet­ty mis­deeds, oc­ca­sion­al­ly ac­com­pa­nied by those of Re­mus Lupin and Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew. And while he copied out all their var­ious of­fens­es and pun­ish­ments, he won­dered what was go­ing on out­side, where the match would have just start­ed . . . Gin­ny play­ing Seek­er against Cho . . .

Har­ry glanced again and again at the large clock tick­ing on the wall. It seemed to be mov­ing half as fast as a reg­ular clock; per­haps Snape had be­witched it to go ex­tra slow­ly? He could not have been here for on­ly half an hour … an hour … an hour and a half. . . .

Har­ry’s stom­ach start­ed rum­bling when the clock showed half past twelve. Snape, who had not spo­ken at all since set­ting Har­ry his task, fi­nal­ly looked up at ten past one.

“I think that will do,” he said cold­ly. “Mark the place you have reached. You will con­tin­ue at ten o’clock next Sat­ur­day.” Yes, sir.

Har­ry stuffed a bent card in­to the box at ran­dom and hur­ried out of the door be­fore Snape could change his mind, rac­ing back up the stone steps, strain­ing his ears to hear a sound from the pitch, but all was qui­et. … It was over, then. . . .

He hes­itat­ed out­side the crowd­ed Great Hall, then ran up the mar­ble stair­case; whether Gryffind­or had won or lost, the team usu­al­ly cel­ebrat­ed or com­mis­er­at­ed in their own com­mon room.

“Quid agis?” he said ten­ta­tive­ly to the Fat La­dy, won­der­ing what he would find in­side.

Her ex­pres­sion was un­read­able as she replied, “You’ll see.”

And she swung for­ward.

A roar of cel­ebra­tion erupt­ed from the hole be­hind her. Har­ry gaped as peo­ple be­gan to scream at the sight of him; sev­er­al hands pulled him in­to the room.

“We won!” yelled Ron, bound­ing in­to sight and bran­dish­ing the sil­ver Cup at Har­ry. “We won! Four hun­dred and fifty to a hun­dred and forty! We won!”

Har­ry looked around; there was Gin­ny run­ning to­ward him; she had a hard, blaz­ing look in her face as she threw her arms around him. And with­out think­ing, with­out plan­ning it, with­out wor­ry­ing about the fact that fifty peo­ple were watch­ing, Har­ry kissed her.

Af­ter sev­er­al long mo­ments — or it might have been half an hour — or pos­si­bly sev­er­al sun­lit days — they broke apart. The room had gone very qui­et. Then sev­er­al peo­ple wolfwhis­tled and there was an out­break of ner­vous gig­gling. Har­ry looked over the top of Gin­ny’s head to see Dean Thomas hold­ing a shat­tered glass in his hand, and Romil­da Vane look­ing as though she might throw some­thing. Hermione was beam­ing, but Har­ry’s eyes sought Ron. At last he found him, still clutch­ing the Cup and wear­ing an ex­pres­sion ap­pro­pri­ate to hav­ing been clubbed over the head. For a frac­tion of a sec­ond they looked at each oth­er, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the head that Har­ry un­der­stood to mean, Well—if you must.

The crea­ture in his chest roar­ing in tri­umph, he grinned down at Gin­ny and ges­tured word­less­ly out of the por­trait hole. A long walk in the grounds seemed in­di­cat­ed, dur­ing which — if they had time — they might dis­cuss the match.





