Chapter 26: The Cave


Har­ry could smell salt and hear rush­ing waves; a light, chilly breeze ruf­fled his hair as he looked out at moon­lit sea and starstrewn sky. He was stand­ing up­on a high out­crop of dark rock, wa­ter foam­ing and churn­ing be­low him. He glanced over his shoul­der. A tow­er­ing cliff stood be­hind them, a sheer drop, black and face­less. A few large chunks of rock, such as the one up­on which Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore were stand­ing, looked as though they had bro­ken away from the cliff face at some point in the past. It was a bleak, harsh view, the sea and the rock un­re­lieved by any tree or sweep of grass or sand.

“What do you think?” asked Dum­ble­dore. He might have been ask­ing Har­ry’s opin­ion on whether it was a good site for a pic­nic.

“They brought the kids from the or­phan­age here?” asked Har­ry, who could not imag­ine a less cozy spot for a day trip.

“Not here, pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is a vil­lage of sorts about halfway along the cliffs be­hind us. I be­lieve the or­phans were tak­en there for a lit­tle sea air and a view of the waves. No, I think it was on­ly ev­er Tom Rid­dle and his youth­ful vic­tims who vis­it­ed this spot. No Mug­gle could reach this rock un­less they were un­com­mon­ly good moun­taineers, and boats can­not ap­proach the cliffs, the wa­ters around them are too dan­ger­ous. I imag­ine that Rid­dle climbed down; mag­ic would have served bet­ter than ropes. And he brought two small chil­dren with him, prob­ably for the plea­sure of ter­ror­iz­ing them. I think the jour­ney alone would have done it, don’t you?”

Har­ry looked up at the cliff again and felt goose bumps.

“But his fi­nal des­ti­na­tion — and ours — lies a lit­tle far­ther on. Come.”

Dum­ble­dore beck­oned Har­ry to the very edge of the rock where a se­ries of jagged nich­es made footholds lead­ing down to boul­ders that lay half­sub­merged in wa­ter and clos­er to the cliff. It was a treach­er­ous de­scent and Dum­ble­dore, ham­pered slight­ly by his with­ered hand, moved slow­ly. The low­er rocks were slip­pery with sea­wa­ter. Har­ry could feel flecks of cold salt spray hit­ting his face. “Lu­mos,” said Dum­ble­dore, as he reached the boul­der clos­est to the cliff face. A thou­sand flecks of gold­en light sparkled up­on the dark sur­face of the wa­ter a few feet be­low where he crouched; the black wall of rock be­side him was il­lu­mi­nat­ed too. “You see?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, hold­ing his wand a lit­tle high­er. Har­ry saw a fis­sure in the cliff in­to which dark wa­ter was swirling. “You will not ob­ject to get­ting a lit­tle wet?”

“No,” said Har­ry.

“Then take off your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak — there is no need for it now — and let us take the plunge,” And with the sud­den ag­ili­ty of a much younger man, Dum­ble­dore slid from the boul­der, land­ed in the sea, and be­gan to swim, with a per­fect breast­stroke, to­ward the dark slit in the rock face, his lit wand held in his teeth. Har­ry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it in­to his pock­et, and fol­lowed. The wa­ter was icy; Har­ry’s wa­ter­logged clothes bil­lowed around him and weighed him down. Tak­ing deep breaths that filled his nos­trils with the tang of salt and sea­weed, he struck out for the shim­mer­ing, shrink­ing light now mov­ing deep­er in­to the cliff. The fis­sure soon opened in­to a dark tun­nel that Har­ry could tell would be filled with wa­ter at high tide. The slimy walls were bare­ly three feet apart and glim­mered like wet tar in the pass­ing light of Dum­ble­dore’s wand. A lit­tle way in, the pas­sage­way curved to the left, and Har­ry saw that it ex­tend­ed far in­to the cliff. He con­tin­ued to swim in Dum­ble­dore’s wake, the tips of his be­numbed fin­gers brush­ing the rough, wet rock.

Then he saw Dum­ble­dore ris­ing out of the wa­ter ahead, his sil­ver hair and dark robes gleam­ing. When Har­ry reached the spot he found steps that led in­to a large cave. He clam­bered up them, wa­ter stream­ing from his soak­ing clothes, and emerged, shiv­er­ing un­con­trol­lably, in­to the still and freez­ing air.

Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the cave, his wand held high as he turned slow­ly on the spot, ex­am­in­ing the walls and ceil­ing.

“Yes, this is the place,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“How can you tell?” Har­ry spoke in a whis­per.

“It has known mag­ic,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply. Har­ry could not tell whether the shiv­ers he was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing were due to his spinedeep cold­ness or to the same aware­ness of

en­chant­ments. He watched as Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued to re­volve on the spot, ev­ident­ly con­cen­trat­ing on things Har­ry could not see. “This is mere­ly the an­techam­ber, the en­trance hall,” said Dum­ble­dore af­ter a mo­ment or two. “We need to pen­etrate the in­ner place. . . . Now it is Lord Volde­mort’s ob­sta­cles that stand in our way, rather than those na­ture made. . . .”

Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the wall of the cave and ca­ressed it with his black­ened fin­ger­tips, mur­mur­ing words in a strange tongue that Har­ry did not un­der­stand. Twice Dum­ble­dore walked right around the cave, touch­ing as much of the rough rock as he could, oc­ca­sion­al­ly paus­ing, run­ning his fin­gers back­ward and for­ward over a par­tic­ular spot, un­til fi­nal­ly he stopped, his hand pressed flat against the wall. “Here,” he said. “We go on through here. The en­trance is con­cealed.” Har­ry did not ask how Dum­ble­dore knew. He had nev­er seen a wiz­ard work things out like this, sim­ply by look­ing and touch­ing; but Har­ry had long since learned that bangs and smoke were more of­ten the marks of in­ep­ti­tude than ex­per­tise. Dum­ble­dore stepped back from the cave wall and point­ed his wand at the rock. For a mo­ment, an arched out­line ap­peared there, blaz­ing white as though there was a pow­er­ful light be­hind the crack.

“You’ve ddone it!” said Har­ry through chat­ter­ing teeth, but be­fore the words had left his lips the out­line had gone, leav­ing the rock as bare and sol­id as ev­er. Dum­ble­dore looked around.

“Har­ry, I’m so sor­ry, I for­got,” he said; he now point­ed his wand at Har­ry and at once, Har­ry’s clothes were as warm and dry as if they had been hang­ing in front of a blaz­ing fire.

“Thank you,” said Har­ry grate­ful­ly, but Dum­ble­dore had al­ready turned his at­ten­tion back to the sol­id cave wall. He did not try any more mag­ic, but sim­ply stood there star­ing at it in­tent­ly, as though some­thing ex­treme­ly in­ter­est­ing was writ­ten on it. Har­ry stayed quite still; he did not want to break Dum­ble­dores con­cen­tra­tion. Then, af­ter two sol­id min­utes, Dum­ble­dore said qui­et­ly, “Oh, sure­ly not. So crude.”

“What is it, Pro­fes­sor?”

“I rather think,” said Dum­ble­dore, putting his un­in­ju­red hand in­side his robes and draw­ing out a short sil­ver knife of the kind Har­ry used to chop po­tion in­gre­di­ents, “that we are re­quired to make pay­ment to pass.”

“Pay­ment?” said Har­ry. “You’ve got to give the door some­thing?”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Blood, if I am not much mis­tak­en.”

“Blood?”

“I said it was crude,” said Dum­ble­dore, who sound­ed dis­dain­ful, even dis­ap­point­ed, as though Volde­mort had fall­en short of high­er stan­dards Dum­ble­dore ex­pect­ed. “The idea, as I am sure you will have gath­ered, is that your en­emy must weak­en him- or her­self to en­ter. Once again, Lord Volde­mort fails to grasp that there are much more ter­ri­ble things than phys­ical in­ju­ry.”

“Yeah, but still, if you can avoid it . . .” said Har­ry, who had ex­pe­ri­enced enough pain not to be keen for more.

“Some­times, how­ev­er, it is un­avoid­able,” said Dum­ble­dore, shak­ing back the sleeve of his robes and ex­pos­ing the fore­arm of his in­ju­red hand.

“Pro­fes­sor!” protest­ed Har­ry, hur­ry­ing for­ward as Dum­ble­dore raised his knife. “I’ll do it, I’m —” He did not know what he was go­ing to say — younger, fit­ter?

But Dum­ble­dore mere­ly smiled. There was a flash of sil­ver, and a spurt of scar­let; the rock face was pep­pered with dark, glis­ten­ing drops.

“You are very kind, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, now pass­ing the tip of his wand over the deep cut he had made in his own arm, so that it healed in­stant­ly, just as Snape had healed Mal­foy’s wound, “But your blood is worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to have done the trick, doesn’t it?” The blaz­ing sil­ver out­line of an arch had ap­peared in the wall once more, and this time it did not fade away: The blood­spat­tered rock with­in it sim­ply van­ished, leav­ing an open­ing in­to what seemed to­tal dark­ness. “Af­ter me, I think,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he walked through the arch­way with Har­ry on his heels, light­ing his own wand hasti­ly as he went.

An eerie sight met their eyes: They were stand­ing on the edge of a great black lake, so vast that Har­ry could not make out the dis­tant banks, in a cav­ern so high that the ceil­ing too was out of sight. A misty green­ish light shone far away in what looked like the mid­dle of the lake; it was re­flect­ed in the com­plete­ly still wa­ter be­low. The green­ish glow and the light from the two wands were the on­ly things that broke the oth­er­wise vel­vety black­ness, though their rays did not pen­etrate as far as Har­ry would have ex­pect­ed. The dark­ness was some­how denser than nor­mal dark­ness.

“Let us walk,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Be very care­ful not to step in­to the wa­ter. Stay close to me.” He set off around the edge of the lake, and Har­ry fol­lowed close be­hind him. Their foot­steps made echo­ing, slap­ping sounds on the nar­row rim of rock that sur­round­ed the wa­ter. On and on they walked, but the view did not vary: on one side of them, the rough cav­ern wall, on the oth­er, the bound­less ex­panse of smooth, glassy black­ness, in the very mid­dle of which was that mys­te­ri­ous green­ish glow. Har­ry found the place and the si­lence op­pres­sive, un­nerv­ing.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said fi­nal­ly. “Do you think the Hor­crux is here?”

“Oh yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Yes, I’m sure it is. The ques­tion is, how do we get to it?”

“We couldn’t… we couldn’t just try a Sum­mon­ing Charm?” Har­ry said, sure that it was a stupid sug­ges­tion. But he was much keen­er than he was pre­pared to ad­mit on get­ting out of this place as soon as pos­si­ble.

“Cer­tain­ly we could,” said Dum­ble­dore, stop­ping so sud­den­ly that Har­ry al­most walked in­to him. “Why don’t you do it?”

“Me? Oh . . . okay . . .” Har­ry had not ex­pect­ed this, but cleared his throat and said loud­ly, wand aloft, “Ac­cio Hor­crux!”

With a noise like an ex­plo­sion, some­thing very large and pale erupt­ed out of the dark wa­ter some twen­ty feet away; be­fore Har­ry could see what it was, it had van­ished again with a crash­ing splash that made great, deep rip­ples on the mir­rored sur­face. Har­ry leapt back­ward in shock and hit the wall; his heart was still thun­der­ing as he turned to Dum­ble­dore.

“What was that?”

“Some­thing, I think, that is ready to re­spond should we at­tempt to seize the Hor­crux.”

Har­ry looked back at the wa­ter. The sur­face of the lake was once more shin­ing black glass: The rip­ples had van­ished un­nat­ural­ly fast; Har­ry’s heart, how­ev­er, was still pound­ing.

“Did you think that would hap­pen, sir?”

“I thought some­thing would hap­pen if we made an ob­vi­ous at­tempt to get our hands on the Hor­crux. That was a very good idea, Har­ry; much the sim­plest way of find­ing out what we are fac­ing.”

“But we don’t know what the thing was,” said Har­ry, look­ing at the sin­is­ter­ly smooth wa­ter.

“What the things are, you mean,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I doubt very much that there is on­ly one of them. Shall we walk on?”

“Pro­fes­sor?”

“Yes, Har­ry?”

“Do you think we’re go­ing to have to go in­to the lake?”

“In­to it? On­ly if we are very un­for­tu­nate.”

“You don’t think the Hor­crux is at the bot­tom?”

“Oh no … I think the Hor­crux is in the mid­dle.” And Dum­ble­dore point­ed to­ward the misty green light in the cen­ter of the lake.

“So we’re go­ing to have to cross the lake to get to it?”

“Yes, I think so.” Har­ry did not say any­thing. His thoughts were all of wa­ter mon­sters, of gi­ant ser­pents, of demons, kelpies, and sprites. . . .

“Aha,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he stopped again; this time, Har­ry re­al­ly did walk in­to him; for a mo­ment he top­pled on the edge of the dark wa­ter, and Dum­ble­dore’s un­in­ju­red hand closed tight­ly around his up­per arm, pulling him back. “So sor­ry, Har­ry, I should have giv­en warn­ing. Stand back against the wall, please; I think I have found the place.”

Har­ry had no idea what Dum­ble­dore meant; this patch of dark bank was ex­act­ly like ev­ery oth­er bit as far as he could tell, but Dum­ble­dore seemed to have de­tect­ed some­thing spe­cial about it. This time he was run­ning his hand, not over the rocky wall, but t hrough the thin air, as though ex­pect­ing to find and grip some­thing in­vis­ible.

“Oho,” said Dum­ble­dore hap­pi­ly, sec­onds lat­er. His hand had closed in midair up­on some­thing Har­ry could not see. Dum­ble­dore moved clos­er to the wa­ter; Har­ry watched ner­vous­ly as the tips of Dum­ble­dore’s buck­led shoes found the ut­most edge of the rock rim. Keep­ing his hand clenched in midair, Dum­ble­dore raised his wand with the oth­er and tapped his fist with the point.

Im­me­di­ate­ly a thick cop­pery green chain ap­peared out of thin air, ex­tend­ing from the depths of the wa­ter in­to Dum­ble­dore’s clenched hand. Dum­ble­dore tapped the chain, which be­gan to slide through his fist like a snake, coil­ing it­self on the ground with a clink­ing sound that echoed nois­ily off the rocky walls, pulling some­thing from the depths of the black wa­ter. Har­ry gasped as the ghost­ly prow of a tiny boat broke the sur­face, glow­ing as green as the chain, and float­ed, with bare­ly a rip­ple, to­ward the place on the bank where Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore stood.

“How did you know that was there?” Har­ry asked in as­ton­ish­ment.

“Mag­ic al­ways leaves traces,” said Dum­ble­dore, as the boat hit the bank with a gen­tle bump, “some­times very dis­tinc­tive traces. I taught Tom Rid­dle. I know his style.”

“Is … is this boat safe?”

“Oh yes, I think so. Volde­mort need­ed to cre­ate a means to cross the lake with­out at­tract­ing the wrath of those crea­tures he had placed with­in it in case he ev­er want­ed to vis­it or re­move his Hor­crux.”

“So the things in the wa­ter won’t do any­thing to us if we cross in Volde­mort’s boat?”

“I think we must re­sign our­selves to the fact that they will, at some point, re­al­ize we are not Lord Volde­mort. Thus far, how­ev­er, we have done well. They have al­lowed us to raise the boat.”

“But why have they let us?” asked Har­ry, who could not shake off the vi­sion of ten­ta­cles ris­ing out of the dark wa­ter the mo­ment they were out of sight of the bank.

“Volde­mort would have been rea­son­ably con­fi­dent that none but a very great wiz­ard would have been able to find the boat,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think he would have been pre­pared to risk what was, to his mind, the most un­like­ly pos­si­bil­ity that some­body else would find it, know­ing that he had set oth­er ob­sta­cles ahead that on­ly he would be able to pen­etrate. We shall see whether he was right.”

Har­ry looked down in­to the boat. It re­al­ly was very small. “It doesn’t look like it was built for two peo­ple. Will it hold both of us? Will we be too heavy to­geth­er?”

Dum­ble­dore chuck­led. “Volde­mort will not have cared about the weight, but about the amount of mag­ical pow­er that crossed his lake. I rather think an en­chant­ment will have been placed up­on this boat so that on­ly one wiz­ard at a time will be able to sail in it.”

“But then — ?”

“I do not think you will count, Har­ry: You are un­der­age and un­qual­ified. Volde­mort would nev­er have ex­pect­ed a six­teenyearold to reach this place: I think it un­like­ly that your pow­ers will reg­is­ter com­pared to mine.” These words did noth­ing to raise Har­rys morale; per­haps Dum­ble­dore knew it, for he added, “Volde­mort’s mis­take, Har­ry, Volde­mort’s mis­take. . . Age is fool­ish and for­get­ful when it un­der­es­ti­mates youth. . . . Now, you first this time, and be care­ful not to touch the wa­ter.” Dum­ble­dore stood aside and Har­ry climbed care­ful­ly in­to the boat. Dum­ble­dore stepped in too, coil­ing the chain on­to the floor. They were crammed in to­geth­er; Har­ry could not com­fort­ably sit, but crouched, his knees jut­ting over the edge of the boat, which be­gan to move at once. There was no sound oth­er than the silken rus­tle of the boat’s prow cleav­ing the wa­ter; it moved with­out their help, as though an in­vis­ible rope was pulling it on­ward to­ward the light in the cen­ter. Soon they could no longer see the walls of the cav­ern; they might have been at sea ex­cept that there were no waves.

Har­ry looked down and saw the re­flect­ed gold of his wan­dlight sparkling and glit­ter­ing on the black wa­ter as they passed. The boat was carv­ing deep rip­ples up­on the glassy sur­face, grooves in the dark mir­ror. . . .

And then Har­ry saw it, mar­ble white, float­ing inch­es be­low the sur­face. “Pro­fes­sor!” he said, and his star­tled voice echoed loud­ly over the silent wa­ter.

“Har­ry?”

“I think I saw a hand in the wa­ter — a hu­man hand!”

“Yes, I am sure you did,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

Har­ry stared down in­to the wa­ter, look­ing for the van­ished hand, and a sick feel­ing rose in his throat.

“So that thing that jumped out of the wa­ter — ?” But Har­ry had his an­swer be­fore Dum­ble­dore could re­ply; the wan­dlight had slid over a fresh patch of wa­ter and showed him, this time, a dead man ly­ing face­up inch­es be­neath the sur­face, his open eyes mist­ed as though with cob­webs, his hair and his robes swirling around him like smoke. “There are bod­ies in here!” said Har­ry, and his voice sound­ed much high­er than usu­al and most un­like his own.

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore placid­ly, “but we do not need to wor­ry about them at the mo­ment.”

“At the mo­ment?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, tear­ing his gaze from the wa­ter to look at Dum­ble­dore.

“Not while they are mere­ly drift­ing peace­ful­ly be­low us,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is noth­ing to be feared from a body, Har­ry, any more than there is any­thing to be feared from the dark­ness. Lord Volde­mort, who of course se­cret­ly fears both, dis­agrees. But once again he re­veals his own lack of wis­dom. It is the un­known we fear when we look up­on death and dark­ness, noth­ing more.” Har­ry said noth­ing; he did not want to ar­gue, but he found the idea that there were bod­ies float­ing around them and be­neath them hor­ri­ble and, what was more, he did not be­lieve that they were not dan­ger­ous.

“But one of them jumped,” he said, try­ing to make his voice as lev­el and calm as Dum­ble­dore’s. “When I tried to Sum­mon the Hor­crux, a body leapt out of the lake.”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I am sure that once we take the Hor­crux, we shall find them less peace­able. How­ev­er, like many crea­tures that dwell in cold and dark­ness, they fear light and warmth, which we shall there­fore call to our aid should the need arise. Fire, Har­ry,” Dum­ble­dore added with a smile, in re­sponse to Har­ry’s be­wil­dered ex­pres­sion.

“Oh . . . right. . .” said Har­ry quick­ly. He turned his head to look at the green­ish glow to­ward which the boat was still in­ex­orably sail­ing. He could not pre­tend now that he was not scared. The great black lake, teem­ing with the dead … It seemed hours and hours ago that he had met Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, that he had giv­en Ron and Hermione Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. . . . He sud­den­ly wished he had said a bet­ter good­bye to them . . . and he hadn’t seen Gin­ny at all. . .

“Near­ly there,” said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly. Sure enough, the green­ish light seemed to be grow­ing larg­er at last, and with­in min­utes, the boat had come to a halt, bump­ing gen­tly in­to some­thing that Har­ry could not see at first, but when he raised his il­lu­mi­nat­ed wand he saw that they had reached a small is­land of smooth rock in the cen­ter of the lake. “Care­ful not to touch the wa­ter,” said Dum­ble­dore again as Har­ry climbed out of the boat.

The is­land was no larg­er than Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, an ex­panse of flat dark stone on which stood noth­ing but the source of that green­ish light, which looked much brighter when viewed close to. Har­ry squint­ed at it; at first, he thought it was a lamp of some kind, but then he saw that the light was com­ing from a stone basin rather like the Pen­sieve, which was set on top of a pedestal. Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the basin and Har­ry fol­lowed. Side by side, they looked down in­to it. The basin was full of an emer­ald liq­uid emit­ting that phos­pho­res­cent glow.

“What is it?” asked Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“I am not sure,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Some­thing more wor­ri­some than blood and bod­ies, how­ev­er.” Dum­ble­dore pushed back the sleeve of his robe over his black­ened hand, and stretched out the tips of his burned fin­gers to­ward the sur­face of the po­tion.

“Sir, no, don’t touch — !”

“I can­not touch,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing faint­ly. “See? I can­not ap­proach any near­er than this. You try.”

Star­ing, Har­ry put his hand in­to the basin and at­tempt­ed to touch the po­tion. He met an in­vis­ible bar­ri­er that pre­vent­ed him com­ing with­in an inch of it. No mat­ter how hard he pushed, his fin­gers en­coun­tered noth­ing but what seemed to be sol­id and flex­ible air.

“Out of the way, please, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. He raised his wand and made com­pli­cat­ed move­ments over the sur­face of the­po­tion, mur­mur­ing sound­less­ly. Noth­ing hap­pened, ex­cept per haps that the po­tion glowed a lit­tle brighter. Har­ry re­mained silent while Dum­ble­dore worked, but af­ter a while Dum­ble­dore with­drew his wand, and Har­ry felt it was safe to talk again.

“You think the Hor­crux is in there, sir?”

“Oh yes.” Dum­ble­dore peered more close­ly in­to the basin. Har­ry saw his face re­flect­ed, up­side down, in the smooth sur­face of the green po­tion. “But how to reach it? This po­tion can­not be pen­etrat­ed by hand, Van­ished, part­ed, scooped up, or si­phoned away, nor can it be Trans­fig­ured, Charmed, or oth­er­wise made to change its na­ture.” Al­most ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, Dum­ble­dore raised his wand again, twirled it once in midair, and then caught the crys­tal gob­let that he had con­ju­red out of nowhere. “I can on­ly con­clude that this po­tion is sup­posed to be drunk.”

“What?” said Har­ry. “No!”

“Yes, I think so: On­ly by drink­ing it can I emp­ty the basin and see what lies in its depths.”

“But what if— what if it kills you?”

“Oh, I doubt that it would work like that,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily. “Lord Volde­mort would not want to kill the per­son who reached this is­land.” Har­ry couldn’t be­lieve it. Was this more of Dum­ble­dore’s in­sane de­ter­mi­na­tion to see good in ev­ery­one?

“Sir,” said Har­ry, try­ing to keep his voice rea­son­able, “sir, this is Volde­mort we’re —”

“I’m sor­ry, Har­ry; I should have said, he would not want to im­me­di­ate­ly kill the per­son who reached this is­land,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed him­self. “He would want to keep them alive long enough to find out how they man­aged to pen­etrate so far through his de­fens­es and, most im­por­tant­ly of all, why they were so in­tent up­on emp­ty­ing the basin. Do not for­get that Lord Volde­mort be­lieves that he alone knows about his Hor­crux­es.”

Har­ry made to speak again, but this time Dum­ble­dore raised his hand for si­lence, frown­ing slight­ly at the emer­ald liq­uid, ev­ident­ly think­ing hard. “Un­doubt­ed­ly,” he said, fi­nal­ly, “this po­tion must act in a way that will pre­vent me tak­ing the Hor­crux. It might par­alyze me, cause me to for­get what I am here for, cre­ate so much pain I am dis­tract­ed, or ren­der me in­ca­pable in some oth­er way. This be­ing the case, Har­ry, it will be your job to make sure I keep drink­ing, even if you have to tip the po­tion in­to my protest­ing mouth. You un­der­stand?”

Their eyes met over the basin, each pale face lit with that strange, green light. Har­ry did not speak. Was this why he had been in­vit­ed along — so that he could force­feed Dum­ble­dore a po­tion that might cause him un­en­durable pain?

“You re­mem­ber,” said Dum­ble­dore, “the con­di­tion on which I brought you with me?”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, look­ing in­to the blue eyes that had turned green in the re­flect­ed light of the basin.

“But what if—?”

“You swore, did you not, to fol­low any com­mand I gave you?”

“Yes, but—”

“I warned you, did I not, that there might be dan­ger?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, “but —”

“Well, then,” said Dum­ble­dore, shak­ing back his sleeves once more and rais­ing the emp­ty gob­let, “you have my or­ders.”

“Why can’t I drink the po­tion in­stead?” asked Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

“Be­cause I am much old­er, much clev­er­er, and much less valu­able,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Once and for all, Har­ry, do I have your word that you will do all in your pow­er to make me keep drink­ing?”

“Couldn’t — ?”

“Do I have it?”

“But—”

“Your word, Har­ry.”

“I —all right, but—”

Be­fore Har­ry could make any fur­ther protest, Dum­ble­dore low­ered the crys­tal gob­let in­to the po­tion. For a split sec­ond, Har­ry hoped that he would not be able to touch the po­tion with the gob­let, but the crys­tal sank in­to the sur­face as noth­ing else had; when the glass was full to the brim, Dum­ble­dore lift­ed it to his mouth. “Your good health, Har­ry.”

And he drained the gob­let. Har­ry watched, ter­ri­fied, his hands grip­ping the rim of the basin so hard that his fin­ger­tips were numb.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said anx­ious­ly, as Dum­ble­dore low­ered the emp­ty glass. “How do you feel?”

Dum­ble­dore shook his head, his eyes closed. Har­ry won­dered whether he was in pain. Dum­ble­dore plunged the glass blind­ly back in­to the basin, re­filled it, and drank once more.

In si­lence, Dum­ble­dore drank three gob­lets­ful of the po­tion. Then, halfway through the fourth gob­let, he stag­gered and fell for­ward against the basin. His eyes were still closed, his breath­ing heavy.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore?” said Har­ry, his voice strained. “Can you hear me?”

Dum­ble­dore did not an­swer. His face was twitch­ing as though he was deeply asleep, but dream­ing a hor­ri­ble dream. His grip on the gob­let was slack­en­ing; the po­tion was about to spill from it. Har­ry reached for­ward and grasped the crys­tal cup, hold­ing it steady. “Pro­fes­sor, can you hear me?” he re­peat­ed loud­ly, his voice echo­ing around the cav­ern.

Dum­ble­dore pant­ed and then spoke in a voice Har­ry did not rec­og­nize, for he had nev­er heard Dum­ble­dore fright­ened like this.

“I don’t want. . . Don’t make me …”

Har­ry stared in­to the whitened face he knew so well, at the crooked nose and half­moon spec­ta­cles, and did not know what to do.

“. . . don’t like . . . want to stop . . .” moaned Dum­ble­dore.

“You . . . you can’t stop, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry. “You’ve got to keep drink­ing, re­mem­ber? You told me you had to keep drink­ing. Here . . .” Hat­ing him­self, re­pulsed by what he was do­ing, Har­ry forced the gob­let back to­ward Dum­ble­dore’s mouth and tipped it, so that Dum­ble­dore drank the re­main­der of the po­tion in­side.

“No …” he groaned, as Har­ry low­ered the gob­let back in­to the basin and re­filled it for him. “I don’t want to. … I don’t want to. . . . Let me go. . . .”

“Its all right, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, his hand shak­ing. “Its all right, I’m here —”

“Make it stop, make it stop,” moaned Dum­ble­dore.

“Yes.. . yes, this’ll make it stop,” lied Har­ry. He tipped the con­tents of the gob­let in­to Dum­ble­dore’s open mouth. Dum­ble­dore screamed; the noise echoed all around the vast cham­ber, across the dead black wa­ter.

“No, no, no, no, I can’t, I can’t, don’t make me, I don’t warn to. . . .”

“It’s all right, Pro­fes­sor, it’s all right!” said Har­ry loud­ly, his hands shak­ing so bad­ly he could hard­ly scoop up the sixth gob­lei ful of po­tion; the basin was now half emp­ty. “Noth­ing’s hap­pen­ing to you, you’re safe, it isn’t re­al, I swear it isn’t re­al — take this, now, take this…” And obe­di­ent­ly, Dum­ble­dore drank, as though it was an an­ti­dote Har­ry of­fered him, but up­on drain­ing the gob­let, he sank to his knees, shak­ing un­con­trol­lably.

“Its all my fault, all my fault,” he sobbed. “Please make it stop, I know I did wrong, oh please make it stop and I’ll nev­er, nev­er again …”

“This will make it stop, Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry said, his voice crack­ing as he tipped the sev­enth glass of po­tion in­to Dum­ble­dore’s mouth.

Dum­ble­dore be­gan to cow­er as though in­vis­ible tor­tur­ers sur­round­ed him; his flail­ing hand al­most knocked the re­filled gob­let from Har­ry’s trem­bling hands as he moaned, “Don’t hurt them, don’t hurt them, please, please, its my fault, hurt me in­stead …”

“Here, drink this, drink this, you’ll be all right,” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, and once again Dum­ble­dore obeyed him, open­ing his mouth even as he kept his eyes tight shut and shook from head to foot. And now he fell for­ward, scream­ing again, ham­mer­ing his fists up­on the ground, while Har­ry filled the ninth gob­let.

“Please, please, please, no … not that, not that, I’ll do any­thing …”

“Just drink, Pro­fes­sor, just drink . . .”

Dum­ble­dore drank like a child dy­ing of thirst, but when he had fin­ished, he yelled again as though his in­sides were on fire. “No more, please, no more …”

Har­ry scooped up a tenth gob­let­ful of po­tion and felt the crys­tal scrape the bot­tom of the basin. “We’re near­ly there, Pro­fes­sor. Drink this, drink it. …”

He sup­port­ed Dum­ble­dore’s shoul­ders and again, Dum­ble­dore drained the glass; then Har­ry was on his feet once more, re­fill­ing the gob­let as Dum­ble­dore be­gan to scream in more an­guish than ev­er, “I want to die! I want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want to die!”

“Drink this, Pro­fes­sor. Drink this. . . .”

Dum­ble­dore drank, and no soon­er had he fin­ished than he yelled, “KILL ME!”

“This — this one will!” gasped Har­ry. “Just drink this .. . It’ll be over … all over!” Dum­ble­dore gulped at the gob­let, drained ev­ery last drop, and then, with a great, rat­tling gasp, rolled over on­to his face.

“No!” shout­ed Har­ry, who had stood to re­fill the gob­let again; in­stead he dropped the cup in­to the basin, flung him­self down be­side Dum­ble­dore, and heaved him over on­to his back; Dum­ble­dore’s glass­es were askew, his mouth agape, his eyes closed. “No.” said Har­ry, shak­ing Dum­ble­dore, “no, you’re not dead, you said it wasn’t poi­son, wake up, wake up — Ren­ner­vate!” he cried, his wand point­ing at Dum­ble­dores chest; there was a flash of red light but noth­ing hap­pened. “Ren­ner­vate — sir — please —”

Dum­ble­dores eye­lids flick­ered; Har­ry’s heart leapt, “Sir, are you — ?”

“Wa­ter,” croaked Dum­ble­dore.

“Wa­ter,” pant­ed Har­ry. “Yes —” He leapt to his feet and seized the gob­let he had dropped in the basin; he bare­ly reg­is­tered the gold­en lock­et ly­ing curled be­neath it.

“Agua­men­ti!” he shout­ed, jab­bing the gob­let with his wand. The gob­let filled with clear wa­ter; Har­ry dropped to his knees be­side Dum­ble­dore, raised his head, and brought the glass to his lips — but it was emp­ty. Dum­ble­dore groaned and be­gan to pant. “But I had some — wait — Agua­men­ti!” said Har­ry again, point­ing his wand at the gob­let. Once more, for a sec­ond, clear wa­ter gleamed with­in it, but as he ap­proached Dum­ble­dores mouth, the wa­ter van­ished again. “Sir, I’m try­ing, I’m try­ing!” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, but he did not think that Dum­ble­dore could hear him; he had rolled on­to his side and was draw­ing great, rat­tling breaths that sound­ed ag­oniz­ing. “Agua­men­ti —Agua­men­ti —AGUA­MEN­TI!”

The gob­let filled and emp­tied once more. And now Dum­ble­dores breath­ing was fad­ing. His brain whirling in pan­ic, Har­ry knew, in­stinc­tive­ly, the on­ly way left to get wa­ter, be­cause Volde­mort had planned it so … He flung him­self over to the edge of the rock and plunged the gob­let in­to the lake, bring­ing it up full to the brim of icy wa­ter that did not van­ish. “Sir — here!” Har­ry yelled, and lung­ing for­ward, he tipped the wa­ter clum­si­ly over Dum­ble­dores face.

It was the best he could do, for the icy feel­ing on his arm not hold­ing the cup was not the lin­ger­ing chill of the wa­ter. A slimy white hand had gripped his wrist, and the crea­ture to whom it be­longed was pulling him, slow­ly, back­ward across the rock. The sur­face of the lake was no longer mir­rorsmooth; it was churn­ing, and ev­ery­where Har­ry looked, white heads and hands were emerg­ing from the dark wa­ter, men and wom­en and chil­dren with sunken, sight­less eyes were mov­ing to­ward the rock: an army of the dead ris­ing from the black wa­ter.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!” yelled Har­ry, strug­gling to cling to the smooth, soaked sur­face of the is­land as he point­ed his wand at the In­ferius that had his arm. It re­leased him, falling back­ward in­to the wa­ter with a splash; he scram­bled to his feet, but many more In­feri were al­ready climb­ing on­to the rock, their bony hands claw­ing at its slip­pery sur­face, their blank, frost­ed eyes up­on him, trail­ing wa­ter­logged rags, sunken faces leer­ing.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!” Har­ry bel­lowed again, back­ing away as he swiped his wand through the air; six or sev­en of them crum­pled, but more were com­ing to­ward him. “Im­ped­imen­ta! In­car­cer­ous!” A few of them stum­bled, one or two of them bound in ropes, but those climb­ing on­to the rock be­hind them mere­ly stepped over or on the fall­en bod­ies. Still slash­ing at the air with his wand, Har­ry yelled, “Sec­tum­sem­pra! SEC­TUM­SEM­PRA!” But though gash­es ap­peared in their sod­den rags and their icy skin, they had no blood to spill: They walked on, un­feel­ing, their shrunk­en hands out­stretched to­ward him, and as he backed away still far­ther, he felt arms en­close him from be­hind, thin, fleshlcv. arms cold as death, and his feet left the ground as they lift­ed him and be­gan to car­ry him, slow­ly and sure­ly, back to the wa­ter, anil he knew there would be no re­lease, that he would be drowned, and be­come one more dead guardian of a frag­ment of Volde­mor­ts shat­tered soul…

But then, through the dark­ness, fire erupt­ed: crim­son and gold, a ring of fire that sur­round­ed the rock so that the In­feri hold­ing Har­ry so tight­ly stum­bled and fal­tered; they did not dare pass through the flames to get to the wa­ter. They dropped Har­ry; he hit the ground, slipped on the rock, and fell, graz­ing his arms, then scram­bled back up, rais­ing his wand and star­ing around.

Dum­ble­dore was on his feet again, pale as any of the sur­round­ing In­feri, but taller than any too, the fire danc­ing in his eyes; his wand was raised like a torch and from its tip em­anat­ed the flames, like a vast las­so, en­cir­cling them all with warmth. The In­feri bumped in­to each oth­er, at­tempt­ing, blind­ly, to es­cape the fire in which they were en­closed. . . .

Dum­ble­dore scooped the lock­et from the bot­tom of the stone basin and stowed it in­side his robes. Word­less­ly, he ges­tured to Har­ry to come to his side. Dis­tract­ed by the flames, the In­feri seemed un­aware that their quar­ry was leav­ing as Dum­ble­dore led Har­ry back to the boat, the ring of fire mov­ing with them, around them, the be­wil­dered In­feri ac­com­pa­ny­ing them to the wa­ters edge, where they slipped grate­ful­ly back in­to their dark wa­ters.

Har­ry, who was shak­ing all over, thought for a mo­ment that Dum­ble­dore might not be able to climb in­to the boat; he stag­gered a lit­tle as he at­tempt­ed it; all his ef­forts seemed to be go­ing in­to main­tain­ing the ring of pro­tec­tive flame around them. Har­ry seized him and helped him back to his seat. Once they were both safe­ly jammed in­side again, the boat be­gan to move back across the black wa­ter, away from the rock, still en­cir­cled by that ring of fire, and it seemed that the In­feri swarm­ing be­low them did not dare resur­face.

“Sir,” pant­ed Har­ry, “sir, I for­got — about fire — they were com­ing at me and I pan­icked —”

“Quite un­der­stand­able,” mur­mured Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry was alarmed to hear how faint his voice was.

They reached the bank with a lit­tle bump and Har­ry leapt out, then turned quick­ly to help Dum­ble­dore. The mo­ment that Dum­ble­dore reached the bank he let his wand hand fall; the ring of fire van­ished, but the In­feri did not emerge again from the wa­ter. The lit­tle boat sank in­to the wa­ter once more; clank­ing and tin­kling, its chain slith­ered back in­to the lake too. Dum­ble­dore gave a great sigh and leaned against the cav­ern wall.

“I am weak…” he said.

“Don’t wor­ry, sir,” said Har­ry at once, anx­ious about Dum­ble­dore’s ex­treme pal­lor and by his air of ex­haus­tion. “Don’t wor­ry, I’ll get us back. . . . Lean on me, sir. . . .”

And pulling Dum­ble­dore’s un­in­ju­red arm around his shoul­ders, Har­ry guid­ed his head­mas­ter back around the lake, bear­ing most of his weight.

“The pro­tec­tion was . . . af­ter all… wellde­signed,” said Dum­ble­dore faint­ly. “One alone could not have done it. … You did well, very well, Har­ry. …”

“Don’t talk now,” said Har­ry, fear­ing how slurred Dum­ble­dore’s voice had be­come, how much his feet dragged. “Save your en­er­gy, sir. . . . We’ll soon be out of here. . . .”

“The arch­way will have sealed again. . . . My knife …” ‘

“There’s no need, I got cut on the rock,” said Har­ry firm­ly. “Just tell me where. . . .”

“Here . . .”

Har­ry wiped his grazed fore­arm up­on the stone: Hav­ing re­ceived its trib­ute of blood, the arch­way re­opened in­stant­ly. They crossed the out­er cave, and Har­ry helped Dum­ble­dore back in­to the icy sea­wa­ter that filled the crevice in the cliff.

“It’s go­ing to be all right, sir,” Har­ry said over and over again, more wor­ried by Dum­ble­dore’s si­lence than he had been by his weak­ened voice. “We’re near­ly there. … I can Ap­pa­rate us both back . . . Don’t wor­ry. . . .”

“I am not wor­ried, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice a lit­tle stronger de­spite the freez­ing wa­ter. “I am with you.”





