Chapter 28: Flight of the Prince


Har­ry felt as though he too were hurtling through space; it had not hap­pened. . . . It could not have hap­pened. …

“Out of here, quick­ly,” said Snape.

He seized Mal­foy by the scruff of the neck and forced him through the door ahead of the rest; Grey­back and the squat broth­er and sis­ter fol­lowed, the lat­ter both pant­ing ex­cit­ed­ly. As they van­ished through the door, Har­ry re­al­ized he could move again. What was now hold­ing him par­alyzed against the wall was not mag­ic, but hor­ror and shock. He threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak aside as the bru­tal­faced Death Eater, last to leave the tow­er top, was dis­ap­pear­ing through the door.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!”

The Death Eater buck­led as though hit in the back with some­thing sol­id and fell to the ground, rigid as a wax­work, but he had bare­ly hit the floor when Har­ry was clam­ber­ing over him and run­ning down the dark­ened stair­case.

Ter­ror tore at Har­ry;s heart. … He had to get to Dum­ble­dore and he had to catch Snape. … Some­how the two things were linked. … He could re­verse what had hap­pened if he had them both to­geth­er. … Dum­ble­dore could not have died. …

He leapt the last ten steps of the spi­ral stair­case and stopped where he land­ed, his wand raised. The dim­ly lit cor­ri­dor was full of dust; half the ceil­ing seemed to have fall­en in; and a bat­tle was rag­ing be­fore him, but even as he at­tempt­ed to make out who were fight­ing whom, he heard the hat­ed voice shout, “It’s over, time to go!” and saw Snape dis­ap­pear­ing around the cor­ner at the far end of the cor­ri­dor; he and Mal­foy seemed to have forced their way through the fight un­scathed. As Har­ry plunged af­ter them, one of the fight­ers de­tached them­selves from the fray and flew at him: it was the were­wolf, Fen­rir. He was on top of Har­ry be­fore Har­ry could raise his wand: Har­ry fell back­ward, with filthy mat­ted hair in his face, the stench of sweat and blood fill­ing his nose and mouth, hot greedy breath at his throat -

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!”

Har­ry felt Fen­rir col­lapse against him; with a stu­pen­dous ef­fort he pushed the were­wolf off and on­to the floor as a jet of green light came fly­ing to­ward him; he ducked and ran, head­first, in­to the fight. His feet met some­thing squashy and slip­pery on the floor and he stum­bled: There were two bod­ies ly­ing there, ly­ing face­down in a pool of blood, but there was no time to in­ves­ti­gate. Har­ry now saw red hair fly­ing like flames in front of him: Gin­ny was locked in com­bat with the lumpy Death Eater, Amy­cus, who was throw­ing hex af­ter hex at her while she dodged them: Amy­cus was gig­gling, en­joy­ing the sport: “Cru­cio - Cru­cio - you can’t dance for­ev­er, pret­ty-“

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” yelled Har­ry.

His jinx hit Amy­cus in the chest: He gave a piglike squeal of pain, was lift­ed off his feet and slammed in­to the op­po­site wall, slid down it, and fell out of sight be­hind Ron, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Lupin, each of whom was bat­tling a sep­arate Death Eater. Be­yond them, Har­ry saw Tonks fight­ing an enor­mous blond wiz­ard who was send­ing curs­es fly­ing in all di­rec­tions, so that they ric­ocheted off the walls around them, crack­ing stone, shat­ter­ing the near­est win­dow -

“Har­ry, where did you come from?” Gin­ny cried, but there was no time to an­swer her. He put his head down and sprint­ed for­ward, nar­row­ly avoid­ing a blast that erupt­ed over his head, show­er­ing them all in bits of wall. Snape must not es­cape, he must catch up with Snape -

“Take that!” shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Har­ry glimpsed the fe­male Death Eater, Alec­to, sprint­ing away down the cor­ri­dor with her arms over her head, her broth­er right be­hind her. He launched him­self af­ter them but his foot caught on some­thing, and next mo­ment he was ly­ing across some­one’s legs. Look­ing around, he saw Neville’s pale, round face flat against the floor. “Neville, are you - ?”

“M’all right,” mut­tered Neville, who was clutch­ing his stom­ach, “Har­ry . . . Snape ‘n’ Mal­foy . . . ran past. . .”

“I know, I’m on it!” said Har­ry, aim­ing a hex from the floor at the enor­mous blond Death Eater who was caus­ing most of the chaos. The man gave a howl of pain as the spell hit him in the face: He wheeled around, stag­gered, and then pound­ed away af­ter the broth­er and sis­ter. Har­ry scram­bled up from the floor and be­gan to sprint along the cor­ri­dor, ig­nor­ing the bangs is­su­ing from be­hind him, the yells of the oth­ers to come back, and the mute call of the fig­ures on the ground whose fate he did not yet know. . . .

He skid­ded around the cor­ner, his train­ers slip­pery with blood; Snape had an im­mense head start. Was it pos­si­ble that he had al­ready en­tered the cab­in­et in the Room of Re­quire­ment, or had the Or­der made steps to se­cure it, to pre­vent the Death Eaters re­treat­ing that way? He could hear noth­ing but his own pound­ing feet, his own ham­mer­ing heart as he sprint­ed along the next emp­ty cor­ri­dor, but then spot­ted a bloody foot­print that showed at least one of the flee­ing Death Eaters was head­ing to­ward the front doors - per­haps the Room of Re­quire­ment was in­deed blocked -

He skid­ded around an­oth­er cor­ner and a curse flew past him; he dived be­hind a suit of ar­mor that ex­plod­ed. He saw the broth­er and sis­ter run­ning down the mar­ble stair­case ahead and aimed jinx­es at them, but mere­ly hit sev­er­al be­wigged witch­es in a por­trait on the land­ing, who ran screech­ing in­to neigh­bor­ing paint­in­gs. As he leapt the wreck­age of ar­mor, Har­ry heard more shouts and screams; oth­er peo­ple with­in the cas­tle seemed to have awo­ken. . . .

He pelt­ed to­ward a short­cut, hop­ing to over­take the broth­er and sis­ter and close in on Snape and Mal­foy, who must sure­ly have reached the grounds by now. Re­mem­ber­ing to leap the van­ish­ing step halfway down the con­cealed stair­case, he burst through a tapestry at the bot­tom and out in­to a cor­ri­dor where a num­ber of be­wil­dered and pa­ja­maclad Huf­flepuffs stood.

“Har­ry! We heard a noise, and some­one said some­thing aboui the Dark Mark -” be­gan Ernie Macmil­lan.

“Out of the way!” yelled Har­ry, knock­ing two boys aside as he sprint­ed to­ward the land­ing and down the re­main­der of the mar­ble stair­case. The oak front doors had been blast­ed open, there were smears of blood on the flag­stones, and sev­er­al ter­ri­fied stu­dents stood hud­dled against the walls, one or two still cow­er­ing with their arms over their faces. The gi­ant Gryffind­or hour­glass had been hit by a curse, and the ru­bies with­in were still falling, with a loud rat­tle, on­to the flag­stones be­low.

Har­ry flew across the en­trance hall and out in­to the dark grounds: He could just make out three fig­ures rac­ing across the lawn, head­ing for the gates be­yond which they could Dis­ap­pa­rate - by the looks of them, the huge blond Death Eater and, some way ahead of him, Snape and Mal­foy. …

The cold night air ripped at Har­ry’s lungs as he tore af­ter them; he saw a flash of light in the dis­tance that mo­men­tar­ily sil­hou­et­ted his quar­ry. He did not know what it was but con­tin­ued to run, not yet near enough to get a good aim with a curse -

An­oth­er flash, shouts, re­tal­ia­to­ry jets of light, and Har­ry un­der­stood: Ha­grid had emerged from his cab­in and was try­ing to stop the Death Eaters es­cap­ing, and though ev­ery breath seemed to shred his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, Har­ry sped up as an un­bid­den voice in his head said: not Ha­grid. . . not Ha­grid too . . .

Some­thing caught Har­ry hard in the small of the back and he fell for­ward, his face smack­ing the ground, blood pour­ing out of both nos­trils: He knew, even as he rolled over, his wand ready, that the broth­er and sis­ter he had over­tak­en us­ing his short­cut were clos­ing in be­hind him. . . .

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” he yelled as he rolled over again, crouch­ing close to the dark ground, and mirac­ulous­ly his jinx hit one of them, who stum­bled and fell, trip­ping up the oth­er; Har­ry leapt to his feet and sprint­ed on af­ter Snape.

And now he saw the vast out­line of Ha­grid, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the light of the cres­cent moon re­vealed sud­den­ly be­hind clouds; the blond Death Eater was aim­ing curse af­ter curse at the game­keep­er; but Ha­grids im­mense strength and the tough­ened skin he had in­her­it­ed from his gi­ant­ess moth­er seemed to be pro­tect­ing him. Snape and Mal­foy, how­ev­er, were still run­ning; they would soon be be­yond the gates, able to Dis­ap­pa­rate -

Har­ry tore past Ha­grid and his op­po­nent, took aim at Snape’s back, and yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!”

He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snape’s head; Snape shout­ed, “Run, Dra­co!”and turned. Twen­ty yards apart, he and Har­ry looked at each oth­er be­fore rais­ing their wands si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly.

“Cruc - “

But Snape par­ried the curse, knock­ing Har­ry back­ward off his feet be­fore he could com­plete it; Har­ry rolled over and scram­bled back up again as the huge Death Eater be­hind him yelled, “In­cen­dio!” Har­ry heard an ex­plo­sive bang and a danc­ing or­ange light spilled over all of them: Ha­grid’s house was on fire.

“Fang’s in there, yer evil - !” Ha­grid bel­lowed.

“Cruc -” yelled Har­ry for the sec­ond time, aim­ing for the fig­ure ahead il­lu­mi­nat­ed in the danc­ing fire­light, but Snape blocked the spell again. Har­ry could see him sneer­ing.

“No Un­for­giv­able Curs­es from you, Pot­ter!” he shout­ed over the rush­ing of the flames, Ha­grid’s yells, and the wild yelp­ing of the trapped Fang. “You haven’t got the nerve or the abil­ity -“

“In­carc-“Har­ry roared, but Snape de­flect­ed the spell with an al­most lazy flick of his arm.

“Fight back!” Har­ry screamed at him. “Fight back, you cow­ard­ly—–“

“Cow­ard, did you call me, Pot­ter?” shout­ed Snape. “Your fa­ther would nev­er at­tack me un­less it was four on one, what would you call him, I won­der?” “Stupe-“

“Blocked again and again and again un­til you learn to keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Pot­ter!” sneered Snape, de­flect­ing the curse once more. “Now come!” he shout­ed at the huge Death Eater be­hind Har­ry. “It is time to be gone, be­fore the Min­istry turns up -“

“Im­pe­di -“

But be­fore he could fin­ish this jinx, ex­cru­ci­at­ing pain hit Har­ry; he keeled over in the grass. Some­one was scream­ing, he would sure­ly die of this agony, Snape was go­ing to tor­ture him to death or mad­ness -

“No!” roared Snape’s voice and the pain stopped as sud­den­ly as it had start­ed; Har­ry lay curled on the dark grass, clutch­ing his wand and pant­ing; some­where over­head Snape was shout­ing, “Have you for­got­ten our or­ders? Pot­ter be­longs to the Dark Lord - we are to leave him! Go! Go!”

And Har­ry felt the ground shud­der un­der his face as the broth­er and sis­ter and the enor­mous Death Eater obeyed, run­ning to­ward the gates. Har­ry ut­tered an inar­tic­ulate yell of rage: In that in­stant, he cared not whether he lived or died. Push­ing him­self to his feet again, he stag­gered blind­ly to­ward Snape, the man he now hat­ed as much as he hat­ed Volde­mort him­self -

“Sec­tum - “

Snape flicked his wand and the curse was re­pelled yet again; but Har­ry was mere feet away now and he could see Snape’s face clear­ly at last: He was no longer sneer­ing or jeer­ing; the blaz­ing flames showed a face full of rage. Mus­ter­ing all his pow­ers of con­cen­tra­tion, Har­ry thought, Levi -

“No, Pot­ter!” screamed Snape. There was a loud BANG and Har­ry was soar­ing back­ward, hit­ting the ground hard again, ;un\ this time his wand flew out of his hand. He could hear Ha­grid yelling and Fang howl­ing as Snape closed in and looked down on him where he lay, wand­less and de­fense­less as Dum­ble­dore hadl been. Snape’s pale face, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the flam­ing cab­in, was suf­fused with ha­tred just as it had been be­fore he had cursed Dum­ble­dore.

“You dare use my own spells against me, Pot­ter? It was I who in­vent­ed them - I, the Half­Blood Prince! And you’d turn my in­ven­tions on me, like your filthy fa­ther, would you? I don’t think so . . . no”

Har­ry had dived for his wand; Snape shot a hex at it and it flew feet away in­to the dark­ness and out of sight.

“Kill me then,” pant­ed Har­ry, who felt no fear at all, but on­ly rage and con­tempt. “Kill me like you killed him, you cow­ard -“

“DON’T -” screamed Snape, and his face was sud­den­ly de­ment­ed, in­hu­man, as though he was in as much pain as the yelp­ing, howl­ing dog stuck in the burn­ing house be­hind them - “CALL ME COW­ARD!”

And he slashed at the air: Har­ry felt a white­hot, whip­like some­thing hit him across the face and was slammed back­ward in­to the ground. Spots of light burst in front of his eyes and for a mo­ment all the breath seemed to have gone from his body, then he heard a rush of wings above him and some­thing enor­mous ob­scured the stars. Buck­beak had flown at Snape, who stag­gered back­ward as the ra­zor­sharp claws slashed at him. As Har­ry raised him­self in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion, his head still swim­ming from its last con­tact with the ground, he saw Snape run­ning as hard as he could, the enor­mous beast flap­ping be­hind him and screech­ing as Har­ry had nev­er heard him screech -

Har­ry strug­gled to his feet, look­ing around grog­gi­ly for his wand, hop­ing to give chase again, but even as his fin­gers fum­bled in the grass, dis­card­ing twigs, he knew it would be too late, and sure enough, by the time he had lo­cat­ed his wand, he turned on­ly to see the hip­pogriff cir­cling the gates. Snape had man­aged to Dis­ap­pa­rate just be­yond the school’s bound­aries.

“Ha­grid,” mut­tered Har­ry, still dazed, look­ing around. “HA­GRID?”

He stum­bled to­ward the burn­ing house as an enor­mous fig­ure emerged from out of the flames car­ry­ing Fang on his back. With a cry of thank­ful­ness, Har­ry sank to his knees; he was shak­ing in ev­ery limb, his body ached all over, and his breath came in painful stabs.

“Yeh all righ’, Har­ry? Yeh all righ’? Speak ter me, Har­ry. . ..”

Ha­grids huge, hairy face was swim­ming above Har­ry, block­ing out the stars. Har­ry could smell burnt wood and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s re­as­sur­ing­ly warm and alive body quiv­er­ing be­side him.

“I’m all right,” pant­ed Har­ry. “Are you?” “‘Course I am . . . take more’n that ter fin­ish me.”

Ha­grid put his hands un­der Har­ry’s arms and raised him up with such force that Har­ry’s feet mo­men­tar­ily left the ground be­fore Ha­grid set him up­right again. He could see blood trick­ling down Ha­grid’s cheek from a deep cut un­der one eye, which was swelling rapid­ly.

“We should put out your house,” said Har­ry, “the charm’s ‘Agua­men­ti’ …”

“Knew it was sum­mat like that,” mum­bled Ha­grid, and he raised a smol­der­ing pink, flow­ery um­brel­la and said, “Agua­men­ti!”

A jet of wa­ter flew out of the um­brel­la tip. Har­ry raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and mur­mured “Agua­men­ti” too: To­geth­er, he and Ha­grid poured wa­ter on the house un­til the last flame was ex­tin­guished.

“S’not too bad,” said Ha­grid hope­ful­ly a few min­utes lat­er, look­ing at the smok­ing wreck. “Noth­in Dum­ble­dore won’ be able to put righ’ . . .”

Har­ry felt a sear­ing pain in his stom­ach at the sound of the name. In the si­lence and the still­ness, hor­ror rose in­side him.

“Ha­grid …”

“I was bindin’ up a cou­ple o’ bowtruck­le legs when I heard ‘em com­ing,” said Ha­grid sad­ly, still star­ing at his wrecked cab­in. “They’ll bin burnt ter twigs, poor lit­tle things. . . .”

“Ha­grid . . .”

“But what hap­pened, Har­ry? I jus’ saw them Death Eaters run­nin down from the cas­tle, but what the rud­dy hell was Snape doin’ with ‘em? Where’s he gone - was he chasin’ them?”

“He . . .” Har­ry cleared his throat; it was dry from pan­ic and the smoke. “Ha­grid, he killed . . .”

“Killed?” said Ha­grid loud­ly, star­ing down at Har­ry. “Snape killed? What’re yeh on abou’, Har­ry?”

“Dum­ble­dore,” said Har­ry. “Snape killed .. . Dum­ble­dore.”

Ha­grid sim­ply looked at him, the lit­tle of his face that could be seen com­plete­ly blank, un­com­pre­hend­ing.

“Dum­ble­dore wha, Har­ry?”

“He’s dead. Snape killed him….”

“Don’ say that,” said Ha­grid rough­ly. “Snape kill Dum­ble­dore - don’ be stupid, Har­ry. Wha’s made yeh say tha’?”

“I saw it hap­pen.” , ,..

“Yeh couldn’ have.”

“I saw it, Ha­grid.”

Ha­grid shook his head; his ex­pres­sion was dis­be­liev­ing but sym­pa­thet­ic, and Har­ry knew that Ha­grid thought he had sus­tained a blow to the head, that he was con­fused, per­haps by the af­ter­ef­fects of a jinx. …

“What mus­ta hap­pened was, Dum­ble­dore mus­ta told Snape ter go with them Death Eaters,” Ha­grid said con­fi­dent­ly. “I sup­pose he’s got­ta keep his cov­er. Look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, Har­ry. …”

Har­ry did not at­tempt to ar­gue or ex­plain. He was still shak­ing un­con­trol­lably. Ha­grid would find out soon enough, too soon. … As they di­rect­ed their steps back to­ward the cas­tle, Har­ry saw that many of its win­dows were lit now. He could imag­ine, clear­ly, the scenes in­side as peo­ple moved from room to room, telling each oth­er that Death Eaters had got in, that the Mark was shin­ing over Hog­warts, that some­body must have been killed. . . .

The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light flood­ing out on­to the drive and the lawn. Slow­ly, un­cer­tain­ly, dress­ing­gowned peo­ple were creep­ing down the steps, look­ing around ner­vous­ly for some sign of the Death Eaters who had fled in­to the night. Har­ry’s eyes, how­ev­er, were fixed up­on the ground at the foot of the tallest tow­er. He imag­in­ed that he could see a black, hud­dled mass ly­ing in the grass there, though he was re­al­ly too far away to see any­thing of the sort. Even as he stared word­less­ly at the place where he thought

Dum­ble­dore’s body must lie, how­ev­er, he saw peo­ple be­gin­ning to move to­ward it.

“What’re they all lookin’ at?” said Ha­grid, as he and Har­ry ap­proached the cas­tle front, Fang keep­ing as close as he could to their an­kles. “Wha’s that lyin’ on the grass?” Ha­grid added sharply, head­ing now to­ward the foot of the As­tron­omy Tow­er, where a small crowd was con­gre­gat­ing. “See it, Har­ry? Right at the foot of the tow­er? Un­der where the Mark . . . Blimey . . . yeh don’ think some­one got thrown - ?”

Ha­grid fell silent, the thought ap­par­ent­ly too hor­ri­ble to ex­press aloud. Har­ry walked along­side him, feel­ing the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the var­ious hex­es of the last half hour had hit him, though in an odd­ly de­tached way, as though some­body near him was suf­fer­ing them. What was re­al and in­es­capable was the aw­ful press­ing feel­ing in his chest. . . .

He and Ha­grid moved, dream­like, through the mur­mur­ing crowd to the very front, where the dumb­struck stu­dents and teach­ers had left a gap.

Har­ry heard Ha­grid’s moan of pain and shock, but he did not stop; he walked slow­ly for­ward un­til he reached the place where Dum­ble­dore lay and crouched down be­side him. He had known there was no hope from the mo­ment that the full Body­Bind Curse Dum­ble­dore had placed up­on him lift­ed, known that it could have hap­pened on­ly be­cause its cast­er was dead, but there was still no prepa­ra­tion for see­ing him here, spread­ea­gled, bro­ken: the great­est wiz­ard Har­ry had ev­er, or would ev­er, meet.

Dum­ble­dore’s eyes were closed; but for the strange an­gle of his arms and legs, he might have been sleep­ing. Har­ry reached out, straight­ened the half­moon spec­ta­cles up­on the crooked nose, and wiped a trick­le of blood from the mouth with his own sleeve. Then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to ab­sorb the enor­mous and in­com­pre­hen­si­ble truth: that nev­er again would Dum­ble­dore speak to him, nev­er again could he help—–

The crowd mur­mured be­hind Har­ry. Af­ter what seemed like a long time, he be­came aware that he was kneel­ing up­on some­thing hard and looked down.

The lock­et they had man­aged to steal so many hours be­fore had fall­en out of Dum­ble­dore’s pock­et. It had opened, per­haps due to the force with which it hit the ground. And al­though he could not feel more shock or hor­ror or sad­ness than he felt al­ready, Har­ry knew, as he picked it up, that there was some­thing wrong—–

He turned the lock­et over in his hands. This was nei­ther as large as the lock­et he re­mem­bered see­ing in the Pen­sieve, nor were there any mark­in­gs up­on it, no sign of the or­nate S that was sup­posed to be Slytherins mark. More­over, there was noth­ing in­side but for a scrap of fold­ed parch­ment wedged tight­ly in­to the place where a por­trait should have been.

Au­to­mat­ical­ly, with­out re­al­ly think­ing about what he was do­ing, Har­ry pulled out the frag­ment of parch­ment, opened it, and read by the light of the many wands that had now been lit be­hind him:

To the Dark Lord

I now I will be dead long be­fore you read this but I want you to know that it was I who di­cov­ered your se­cret. I have stolen the re­al Hor­crux and in­tend to de­stroy it as soon as I can.

I face death in the hope that when you meet your match you will be mor­tal once more.

R.A.B.

Har­ry nei­ther knew nor cared what the mes­sage meant. On­ly one thing mat­tered: This was not a Hor­crux. Dum­ble­dore had weak­ened him­self by drink­ing that ter­ri­ble po­tion for noth­ing. Har­ry crum­pled the parch­ment in his hand, and his eyes burned with tears as be­hind him Fang be­gan to howl.





