Chapter 3: Will And Won’t


Har­ry Pot­ter was snor­ing loud­ly. He had been sit­ting in a chair be­side his bed­room win­dow for the best part of four hours, star­ing out at the dark­en­ing street, and had fi­nal­ly fall­en asleep with one side of his face pressed against the cold win­dow­pane, his glass­es askew and his mouth wide open. The misty fug his breath had left on the win­dow sparkled in the or­ange glare of the street­lamp out­side, and the ar­ti­fi­cial light drained his face of all col­or, so that he looked ghost­ly be­neath his shock of un­tidy black hair.

The room was strewn with var­ious pos­ses­sions and a good smat­ter­ing of rub­bish. Owl feath­ers, ap­ple cores, and sweet wrap­pers lit­tered the floor, a num­ber of spell­books lay hig­gledyp­ig­gledy among the tan­gled robes on his bed, and a mess of news­pa­pers sat in a pud­dle of light on his desk. The head­line of one blared:

HAR­RY POT­TER: THE CHO­SEN ONE?

Ru­mors con­tin­ue to fly about the mys­te­ri­ous re­cent dis­tur­bance at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, dur­ing which He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named was sight­ed once more.

“We’re not al­lowed to talk about it, don’t ask me any­thing” said one ag­itat­ed Oblivi­ator, who re­fused to give his name as he left the Min­istry last night.

Nev­er­the­less, high­ly placed sources with­in the Min­istry have con­firmed that the dis­tur­bance cen­tered on the fa­bled Hall of Prophe­cy.

Though Min­istry spokeswiz­ards have hith­er­to re­fused even to con­firm the ex­is­tence of such a place, a grow­ing num­ber of the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty be­lieve that the Death Eaters now serv­ing sen­tences in Azk­aban for tres­pass and at­tempt­ed theft were at­tempt­ing to steal a prophe­cy. The na­ture of that prophe­cy is un­known, al­though spec­ula­tion is rife that it con­cerns Har­ry Pot­ter, the on­ly per­son ev­er known to have sur­vived the Killing Curse, and who is al­so known to have been at the Min­istry on the night in ques­tion. Some are go­ing so far as to call Pot­ter “the Cho­sen One,” be­liev­ing that the prophe­cy names him as the on­ly one who will be able to rid us of He­Who­Must­No tBe­Named.

The cur­rent where­abouts of the prophe­cy, if it ex­ists, are un­known, al­though {ctd. page2, col­umn 5)

A sec­ond news­pa­per lay be­side die first. This one bore die head­line:

SCRIM­GEOUR SUC­CEEDS FUDGE

Most of this front page was tak­en up with a large blackand­white pic­ture of a man with a li­on­like mane of thick hair and a rather rav­aged face. The pic­ture was mov­ing — the man was wav­ing at the ceil­ing.

Ru­fus Scrim­geour, pre­vi­ous­ly Head of the Au­ror of­fice in the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, has suc­ceed­ed Cor­nelius Fudge as Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. The ap­point­ment has large­ly been greet­ed with en­thu­si­asm by the Wiz­ard­mg com­mu­ni­ty, though ru­mors of a rift be­tween the new Min­is­ter and Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, new­ly re­in­stat­ed Chief War­lock of the Wiz­eng­amot, sur­faced with­in hours of Scrim­geour tak­ing of­fice.

Scrim­geours rep­re­sen­ta­tives ad­mit­ted that he had met with Dum­ble­dore at once up­on tak­ing pos­ses­sion of the top job, but re­fused to com­ment on the top­ics un­der dis­cus­sion. Al­bus Dum­ble­dore is known to (ctd. page 3, col­umn 2)

To the left of this pa­per sat an­oth­er, which had been fold­ed so that a sto­ry bear­ing the ti­tle min­istry guar­an­tees stu­dents’ sapety was vis­ible.

New­ly ap­point­ed Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, Ru­fus Scrim­geour, spoke to­day of the tough new mea­sures tak­en by his Min­istry to en­sure the safe­ty of stu­dents re­turn­ing to Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry this au­tumn.

“For ob­vi­ous rea­sons, the Min­istry will not be go­ing in­to de­tail about its strin­gent new se­cu­ri­ty plans,” said the Min­is­ter, al­though an in­sid­er con­firmed that mea­sures in­clude de­fen­sive spells and charms, a com­plex ar­ray of coun­ter­curs­es, and a small task force of Au­rors ded­icat­ed sole­ly to the pro­tec­tion of Hog­warts School.

Most seem re­as­sured by the new Min­is­ter’s tough stand on stu­dent safe­ty. Said Mrs. Au­gus­ta Long­bot­tom, “My grand­son, Neville — a good friend of Har­ry Pot­ter’s, in­ci­den­tal­ly, who fought the Death Eaters along­side him at the Min­istry in June and —

But the rest of this sto­ry was ob­scured by the large bird­cage.stand­ing on top of it. In­side it was a mag­nif­icent snowy owl. Her am­ber eyes sur­veyed the room im­pe­ri­ous­ly, her head swiv­el­ing oc­ca­sion­al­ly to gaze at her snor­ing mas­ter. Once or twice she clicked her beak im­pa­tient­ly, but Har­ry was too deeply asleep to hear her.

A large trunk stood in the very mid­dle of the room. Its lid was open; it looked ex­pec­tant; yet it was al­most emp­ty but for a residue of old un­der­wear, sweets, emp­ty ink bot­tles, and bro­ken quills that

coat­ed the very bot­tom. Near­by, on the floor, lay a pur­ple leaflet em­bla­zoned with the words:

—-IS­SUED ON BE­HALF OF—-

The Min­istry of Mag­ic

PRO­TECT­ING YOUR HOME AND FAM­ILY AGAINST DARK FORCES

The Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly un­der threat from an or­ga­ni­za­tion call­ing it­self the Death Eaters. Ob­serv­ing the fol­low­ing sim­ple se­cu­ri­ty guide­lines will help pro­tect you, your fam­ily, and your home from at­tack.

1. You are ad­vised not to leave the house alone.

2. Par­tic­ular care should be tak­en dur­ing the hours of dark­ness. Wher­ev­er pos­si­ble, ar­range to com­plete jour­neys be­fore night has fall­en.

3. Re­view the se­cu­ri­ty ar­range­ments around your house, mak­ing sure that all fam­ily mem­bers are aware of emer­gen­cy mea­sures such as Shield and Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charms, and, in the case of un­der­age fam­ily mem­bers, Side­Alon­gAp­pari­tion.

4. Agree on se­cu­ri­ty ques­tions with close friends and fam­ily so as to de­tect Death Eaters mas­quer­ad­ing as oth­ers by use of the Polyjuice Po­tion (see page 2).

5. Should you feel that a fam­ily mem­ber, col­league, friend, or neigh­bor is act­ing in a strange man­ner, con­tact the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad at once. They may have been put un­der the Im­perius Curse (see page 4).

6. Should the Dark Mark ap­pear over any dwelling place or oth­er build­ing, DO NOT EN­TER, but con­tact the Au­ror of­fice im­me­di­ate­ly.

7. Un­con­firmed sight­in­gs sug­gest that the Death Eaters may now be us­ing In­feri (see page 10). Any sight­ing of an In­ferius, or en­counter with same, should be re­port­ed to the Min­istry IM­ME­DI­ATE­LY.

Har­ry grunt­ed in his sleep and his face slid down the win­dow an inch or so, mak­ing his glass­es still more lop­sid­ed, but he did not wake up. An alarm clock, re­paired by Har­ry sev­er­al years ago, ticked loud­ly on the sill, show­ing one minute to eleven. Be­side it, held in place by Har­ry’s re­laxed hand, was a piece of parch­ment cov­ered in thin, slant­ing writ­ing. Har­ry had read this let­ter so of­ten since its ar­ri­val three days ago that al­though it had been de­liv­ered in a tight­ly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat.

Dear Har­ry,

If it is con­ve­nient to you, I shall call at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive this com­ing Fri­day at eleven p.m. to es­cort you to the Bur­row, where you have been in­vit­ed to spend the re­main­der of your school hol­idays.

If you are agree­able, I should al­so be glad of your as­sis­tance in a mat­ter to which I hope to at­tend on the way to the Bur­row. I shall ex­plain this more ful­ly when I see you.

Kind­ly send your an­swer by re­turn of this owl. Hop­ing to see you this Fri­day,

I am yours most sin­cere­ly,

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore

Though he al­ready knew it by heart, Har­ry had been steal­ing glances at this mis­sive ev­ery few min­utes since sev­en o’clock that evening, when he had first tak­en up his po­si­tion be­side his bed­room win­dow, which had a rea­son­able view of both ends of Priv­et Drive. He knew it was point­less to keep reread­ing Dum­ble­dore’s words; Har­ry had sent back his “yes” with the de­liv­er­ing owl, as re­quest­ed, and all he could do now was wait: Ei­ther Dum­ble­dore was go­ing to come, or he was not.

But Har­ry had not packed. It just seemed too good to be true that he was go­ing to be res­cued from the Durs­leys af­ter a mere fort­night of their com­pa­ny. He could not shrug off the feel­ing that some­thing was go­ing to go wrong — his re­ply to Dum­ble­dore’s let­ter might have gone astray; Dum­ble­dore could be pre­vent­ed from col­lect­ing him; the let­ter might turn out not to be from Dum­ble­dore at all, but a trick or joke or trap. Har­ry had not been able to face pack­ing and then be­ing let down and hav­ing to un­pack again. The on­ly ges­ture he had made to the pos­si­bil­ity of a jour­ney was to shut his snowy owl, Hed­wig, safe­ly in her cage.

The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the num­ber twelve and, at that pre­cise mo­ment, the street­lamp out­side the win­dow went out.

Har­ry awoke as though the sud­den dark­ness were an alarm. Hasti­ly straight­en­ing his glass­es and un­stick­ing his cheek from the glass, he pressed his nose against the win­dow in­stead and squint­ed down at the pave­ment. A tall fig­ure in a long, bil­low­ing cloak was walk­ing up the gar­den path.

Har­ry jumped up as though he had re­ceived an elec­tric shock, knocked over his chair, and start­ed snatch­ing any­thing and ev­ery­thing with­in reach from the floor and throw­ing it in­to the trunk. Then as he lobbed a set of robes, two spell­books, and a pack­et of clasps across the room, the door­bell rang. Down­stairs in the liv­ing room his Un­cle Ver­non shout­ed, “Who the blazes is call­ing at this lime of night?”

Har­ry froze with a brass tele­scope in one hand and a pair of train­ers in the oth­er. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten to warn the Durs­leys that Dum­ble­dore might be com­ing. Feel­ing both pan­icky mid close to laugh­ter, he clam­bered over the trunk and wrenched open his bed­room door in time to hear a deep voice say, “Good evening. You must be Mr. Durs­ley. I dare­say Har­ry has told you I would be com­ing for him?”

Har­ry ran down the stairs two at a time, com­ing to an abrupt halt sev­er­al steps from the bot­tom, as long ex­pe­ri­ence had taught him to re­main out of arm’s reach of his un­cle when­ev­er pos­si­ble. There in the door­way stood a tall, thin man with waistlength sil­ver hair and beard. Half­moon spec­ta­cles were perched on his crooked nose, and he was wear­ing a long black trav­el­ing cloak and.1 point­ed hat. Ver­non Durs­ley, whose mus­tache was quite as bushy as Dum­ble­dore’s, though black, and who was wear­ing a puce dress­ing gown, was star­ing at the vis­itor as though he could not be­lieve his tiny eyes.

“Judg­ing by your look of stunned dis­be­lief, Har­ry did not warn you that I was com­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly. “How­ev­er, let us as­sume that you have in­vit­ed me warm­ly in­to your house. It is un­wise to linger over­long on doorsteps in these trou­bled times.”

He stepped smart­ly over the thresh­old and closed the front door be­hind him.

“It is a long time since my last vis­it,” said Dum­ble­dore, peer­ing down his crooked nose at Un­cle Ver­non. “I must say, your aga­pan­thus are flour­ish­ing.”

Ver­non Durs­ley said noth­ing at all. Har­ry did not doubt that speech would re­turn to him, and soon — the vein puls­ing in his un­cles tem­ple was reach­ing dan­ger point — but some­thing about Dum­ble­dore seemed to have robbed him tem­po­rar­ily of breath. It might have been the bla­tant wiz­ardish­ness of his ap­pear­an­ce, but it might, too, have been that even Un­cle Ver­non could sense that here was a man whom it would be very dif­fi­cult to bul­ly.

“Ah, good evening Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing up at him through his half­moon glass­es with a most sat­is­fied ex­pres­sion. “Ex­cel­lent, ex­cel­lent.”

These words seemed to rouse Un­cle Ver­non. It was clear that as far as he was con­cerned, any man who could look at Har­ry and say “ex­cel­lent” was a man with whom he could nev­er see eye to eye.

“I don’t mean to be rude —” he be­gan, in a tone that threat­ened rude­ness in ev­ery syl­la­ble.

“–yet, sad­ly, ac­ci­den­tal rude­ness oc­curs alarm­ing­ly of­ten,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished the sen­tence grave­ly. “Best to say noth­ing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this must be Petu­nia.”

The kitchen door had opened, and there stood Har­ry’s aunt, wear­ing rub­ber gloves and a house­coat over her night­dress, clear­ly halfway through her usu­al prebed­time wipedown of all the kitchen sur­faces. Her rather horsey face reg­is­tered noth­ing but shock.

“Al­bus Dum­ble­dore,” said Dum­ble­dore, when Un­cle Ver­non failed to ef­fect an in­tro­duc­tion. “We have cor­re­spond­ed, of course.” Har­ry thought this an odd way of re­mind­ing Aunt Petu­nia that he had once sent her an ex­plod­ing let­ter, but Aunt Petu­nia did not chal­lenge the term. “And this must be your son, Dud­ley?”

Dud­ley had that mo­ment peered round the liv­ing room door, his large, blond head ris­ing out of the stripy col­lar of his pa­ja­mas looked odd­ly dis­em­bod­ied, his mouth gap­ing in as­ton­ish­ment and I car. Dum­ble­dore wait­ed a mo­ment or two, ap­par­ent­ly to see whether any of the Durs­leys were go­ing to say any­thing, but as the •.il­cncc stretched on he smiled.

“Shall we as­sume that you have in­vit­ed me in­to your sit­ting room?”

Dud­ley scram­bled out of the way as Dum­ble­dore passed him. I lur­ry, still clutch­ing the tele­scope and train­ers, jumped the last lew stairs and fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore, who had set­tled him­self in i he arm­chair near­est the fire and was tak­ing in the sur­round­in­gs wilh an ex­pres­sion of be­nign in­ter­est. He looked quite ex­traor­di­nar­ily out of place.

“Aren’t —- aren’t we leav­ing, sir?” Har­ry asked anx­ious­ly.

“Yes, in­deed we are, but there are a few mat­ters we need to disi us.s first,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And I would pre­fer not to do so in (he open. We shall tres­pass up­on your aunt and un­cle’s hos­pi­tal­ity on­ly a lit­tle longer.”

“You will, will you?”

Ver­non Durs­ley had en­tered the room, Petu­nia at his shoul­der, iind Dud­ley skulk­ing be­hind them both.

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply, “I shall.”

He drew his wand so rapid­ly that Har­ry bare­ly saw it; with a ca­su­al flick, the so­fa zoomed for­ward and knocked the knees out from un­der all three of the Durs­leys so that they col­lapsed up­on it in a heap. An­oth­er flick of the wand and the so­fa zoomed back to its orig­in­al po­si­tion.

“We may as well be com­fort­able,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly.

As he re­placed his wand in his pock­et, Har­ry saw that his hand was black­ened and shriv­eled; it looked as though his flesh had been burned away. ¦¦ ¦ • <¦’•¦

“Sir — what hap­pened to your — ?”

“Lat­er, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Please sit down.”

Har­ry took the re­main­ing arm­chair, choos­ing not to look at the Durs­leys, who seemed stunned in­to si­lence.

“I would as­sume that you were go­ing to of­fer me re­fresh­ment,” Dum­ble­dore said to Un­cle Ver­non, “but the ev­idence so far sug­gests that that would be op­ti­mist­ic to the point of fool­ish­ness.”

A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty bot­tle and five glass­es ap­peared in midair. The bot­tle tipped and poured a gen­er­ous mea­sure of hon­ey­col­ored liq­uid in­to each of the glass­es, which then float­ed to each per­son in the room.

“Madam Ros­mer­tas finest oak­ma­tured mead,” said Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing his glass to Har­ry, who caught hold of his own and sipped. He had nev­er tast­ed any­thing like it be­fore, but en­joyed it im­mense­ly. The Durs­leys, af­ter quick, scared looks at one an­oth­er, tried to ig­nore their glass­es com­plete­ly, a dif­fi­cult feat, as they were nudg­ing them gen­tly on the sides of their heads. Har­ry could not sup­press a sus­pi­cion that Dum­ble­dore was rather en­joy­ing him­self.

“Well, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, turn­ing to­ward him, “a dif­fi­cul­ty has arisen which I hope you will be able to solve for us. By us, I mean the Or­der of the Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Sir­ius’s will was dis­cov­ered a week ago and that he left you ev­ery­ihing he owned.”

Over on the so­fa, Un­cle Ver­nons head turned, but Har­ry did not look at him, nor could he think of any­thing to say ex­cept, “Oh. Right.”

“This is, in the main, fair­ly straight­for­ward,” Dum­ble­dore went on. “You add a rea­son­able amount of gold to your ac­count at (iringotts, and you in­her­it all of Sir­ius’s per­son­al pos­ses­sions. The slight­ly prob­lem­at­ic part of the lega­cy —”

“His god­fa­ther’s dead?” said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly from the so­fa. 1 )um­ble­dore and Har­ry both turned to look at him. The glass of mead was now knock­ing quite in­sis­tent­ly on the side of Ver­nons head; he at­tempt­ed to beat it away. “He’s dead? His god­fa­ther?”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. He did not ask Har­ry why he had not con­fid­ed in the Durs­leys. “Our prob­lem,” he con­tin­ued to Har­ry, as if there had been no in­ter­rup­tion, “is that Sir­ius al­so left you num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place.”

“He’s been left a house?” said Un­cle Ver­non greed­ily, his small eyes nar­row­ing, but no­body an­swered him.

“You can keep us­ing it as head­quar­ters,” said Har­ry. “I don’t care. You can have it, I don’t re­al­ly want it.” Har­ry nev­er want­ed to set foot in num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place again if he could help it. He thought he would be haunt­ed for­ev­er by the mem­ory of Sir­ius prowl­ing its dark musty rooms alone, im­pris­oned with­in the place he had want­ed so des­per­ate­ly to leave.

“That is gen­er­ous,” said Dum­ble­dore. “We have, how­ev­er, va­cat­ed the build­ing tem­po­rar­ily.”

“Why?”

“Well,” said Dum­ble­dore, ig­nor­ing the mut­ter­in­gs of Un­cle Ver­non, who was now be­ing rapped smart­ly over the head by the per­sis­tent glass of mead, “Black fam­ily tra­di­tion de­creed that the house was hand­ed down the di­rect line, to the next male with the name of ‘Black.’ Sir­ius was the very last of the line as his younger broth­er, Reg­ulus, pre­de­ceased him and both were child­less. While his will makes it per­fect­ly plain that he wants you to have the house, it is nev­er­the­less pos­si­ble that some spell or en­chant­ment has been set up­on the place to en­sure that it can­not be owned by any­one oth­er than a pure­blood.”

A vivid im­age of the shriek­ing, spit­ting por­trait of Sir­ius’s moth­er that hung in the hall of num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place flashed in­to Har­ry’s mind. “I bet there has,” he said.

“Quite,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And if such an en­chant­ment ex­ists, then the own­er­ship of the house is most like­ly to pass to the el­dest of Sir­ius’s liv­ing rel­atives, which would mean his cousin, Bel­la­trix Lestrange.”

With­out re­al­iz­ing what he was do­ing, Har­ry sprang to his feet; the tele­scope and train­ers in his lap rolled across the floor. Bel­la­trix Lestrange, Sir­ius’s killer, in­her­it his house?

“No,” he said.

“Well, ob­vi­ous­ly we would pre­fer that she didn’t get it ei­ther,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “The sit­ua­tion is fraught with com­pli­ca­tions. We do not know whether the en­chant­ments we our­selves have placed up­on it, for ex­am­ple, mak­ing it Un­plot­ta­ble, will hold now that own­er­ship has passed from Sir­ius’s hands. It might be that Bel­la­trix will ar­rive on the doorstep at any mo­ment. Nat­ural­ly we had to move out un­til such time as we have clar­ified the po­si­tion,”

“But how are you go­ing to find out if I’m al­lowed to own it?”

“For­tu­nate­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore, “there is a sim­ple test.”

He placed his emp­ty glass on a small ta­ble be­side his chair, but be­fore he could do any­thing else, Un­cle Ver­non shout­ed, “Will you get these rud­dy things off us?”

Har­ry looked around; all three of the Durs­leys were cow­er­ing with their arms over their heads as their glass­es bounced up and down on their skulls, their con­tents fly­ing ev­ery­where.

“Oh, I’m so sor­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly, and he raised his wand again. All three glass­es van­ished. “But it would have been bet­ter man­ners to drink it, you know.”

It looked as though Un­cle Ver­non was burst­ing with any num­ber of un­pleas­ant re­torts, but he mere­ly shrank back in­to the cush­ions with Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley and said noth­ing, keep­ing his small pig­gy eyes on Dum­ble­dore’s wand.

“You see,” Dum­ble­dore said, turn­ing back to Har­ry and again speak­ing as though Un­cle Ver­non had not ut­tered, “if you have in­deed in­her­it­ed the house, you have al­so in­her­it­ed —”

He flicked his wand for a fifth time. There was a loud crack, and a house­elf ap­peared, with a snout for a nose, gi­ant bat’s ears, and enor­mous blood­shot eyes, crouch­ing on the Durs­leys’ shag car­pet and cov­ered in grimy rags. Aunt Petu­nia let out a hair­rais­ing shriek; noth­ing this filthy had en­tered her house in liv­ing mem­ory. Dud­ley drew his large, bare, pink feet off the floor and sat with them raised al­most above his head, as though he thought the crea­ture might run up his pa­ja­ma trousers, and Un­cle Ver­non bel­lowed, “What the hell is that?”

“Kreach­er,” fin­ished Dum­ble­dore.

“Kreach­er won’t, Kreach­er won’t, Kreach­er won’t!” croaked the house­elf, quite as loud­ly as Un­cle Ver­non, stamp­ing his long, gnarled feet and pulling lii.s ears. “Kreach­er be­longs to Miss Bel­la­trix, oh yes, Kreach­er be­longs to the Blacks, Kreach­er wants his new mis­tress, Kreach­er won’t go to the Pot­ter brat, Kreach­er won’t, won’t, won’t —”

“As you can see, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore loud­ly, over Kreach­er’s con­tin­ued croaks of “wont, won’t, won’t,” “Kreach­er is show­ing a cer­tain re­luc­tance to pass in­to your own­er­ship.”

“I don’t care,” said Har­ry again, look­ing with dis­gust at the writhing, stamp­ing house­elf. “I don’t want him.”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —”

“You would pre­fer him to pass in­to the own­er­ship of Bel­la­trix Lestrange? Bear­ing in mind that he has lived at the head­quar­ters of the Or­der of the Phoenix for the past year?”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —”

Har­ry stared at Dum­ble­dore. He knew that Kreach­er could not be per­mit­ted to go and live with Bel­la­trix Lestrange, but the idea of own­ing him, of hav­ing re­spon­si­bil­ity for the crea­ture that had be­trayed Sir­ius, was re­pug­nant.

“Give him an or­der,” said Dum­ble­dore. “If he has passed in­to your own­er­ship, he will have to obey. If not, then we shall have to think of some oth­er means of keep­ing him from his right­ful mis­tress.”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, WON’T!”

Kreach­er’s voice had risen to a scream. Har­ry could think of noth­ing to say, ex­cept, “Kreach­er, shut up!”

It looked for a mo­ment as though Kreach­er was go­ing to choke. He grabbed his throat, his mouth still work­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, his eyes bulging. Af­ter a few sec­onds of fran­tic gulp­ing, he threw him­self face for­ward on­to the car­pet (Aunt Petu­nia whim­pered) and beat the floor with his hands and feet, giv­ing him­self over to a vi­olent, but en­tire­ly silent, tantrum.

“Well, that sim­pli­fies mat­ters,” said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly. “It means that Sir­ius knew what he was do­ing. You are the right­ful own­er of num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place and of Kreach­er.”

“Do I — do I have to keep him with me?” Har­ry asked, aghast, us Kreach­er thrashed around at his feet.

“Not if you don’t want to,” said Dum­ble­dore. “If I might make ii sug­ges­tion, you could send him to Hog­warts to work in the kitchen there. In that way, the oth­er house­elves could keep an eye on him.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry in re­lief, “yeah, I’ll do that. Er — Kreach­er — I want you to go to Hog­warts and work in the kitchens there with the oth­er house­elves.”

Kreach­er, who was now ly­ing flat on his back with his arms and legs in the air, gave Har­ry one up­side­down look of deep­est loathing and, with an­oth­er loud crack, van­ished.

“Good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is al­so the mat­ter of the hip­pogriff, Buck­beak. Ha­grid has been look­ing af­ter him since Sir­ius died, but Buck­beak is yours now, so if you would pre­fer to make dif­fer­ent ar­range­ments —”

“No,” said Har­ry at once, “he can stay with Ha­grid. I think Buck­beak would pre­fer that.”

“Ha­grid will be de­light­ed,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “He was thrilled to see Buck­beak again. In­ci­den­tal­ly, we have de­cid­ed, in the in­ter­ests of Buck­beak’s safe­ty, to rechris­ten him ‘With­er­wings’ for the time be­ing, though I doubt that the Min­istry would ev­er guess he is the hip­pogriff they once sen­tenced to death. Now, Har­ry, is your trunk packed?”

Erm…

“Doubt­ful that I would turn up?” Dum­ble­dore sug­gest­ed shrewd­ly.

“I’ll just go and — er — fin­ish off,” said Har­ry hasti­ly, hur­ry­ing to pick up his fall­en tele­scope and train­ers.

It took him a lit­tle over ten min­utes to track down ev­ery­thing he need­ed; at last he had man­aged to ex­tract his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from un­der the bed, screwed the top back on his jar of col­or­change ink, and forced the lid of his trunk shut on his caul­dron. Then, heav­ing his trunk in one hand and hold­ing Hed­wig’s cage in the oth­er, he made his way back down­stairs,

He was dis­ap­point­ed to dis­cov­er that Dum­ble­dore was not wait­ing in the hall, which meant that he had to re­turn to the liv­ing room.

No­body was talk­ing. Dum­ble­dore was hum­ming qui­et­ly, ap­par­ent­ly quite at his ease, but the at­mo­sphere was thick­er than cold cus­tard, and Har­ry did not dare look at the Durs­leys as he said, “Pro­fes­sor — I’m ready now.”

“Good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Just one last thing, then.” And he turned to speak to the Durs­leys once more.

“As you will no doubt be aware, Har­ry comes of age in a years time —”

“No,” said Aunt Petu­nia, speak­ing for the first time since Dum­ble­dore’s ar­ri­val.

“I’m sor­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly.

“No, he doesn’t. He’s a month younger than Dud­ley, and Dud­ders doesn’t turn eigh­teen un­til the year af­ter next.”

“Ah,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly, “but in the Wiz­ard­ing world, we come of age at sev­en­teen.”

Un­cle Ver­noii mut­tered, “Pre­pos­ter­ous,” but Dum­ble­dore ig­nored him,

“Now, as you al­ready know, the wiz­ard called Lord Volde­mort Was re­turned to this coun­try. The Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly in a state of open war­fare. Har­ry, whom Lord Volde­mort has al­ready at­tempt­ed to kill on a num­ber of oc­ca­sions, is in even greater dan­ger now than the day when I left him up­on your doorstep fif­teen years ago, with a let­ter ex­plain­ing about his par­ents’ mur­der and ex­press­ing the hope that you would care for him ;is though he were your own.”

Dum­ble­dore paused, and al­though his voice re­mained light and calm, and he gave no ob­vi­ous sign of anger, Har­ry felt a kind of chill em­anat­ing from him and no­ticed that the Durs­leys drew very slight­ly clos­er to­geth­er.

“You did not do as I asked. You have nev­er treat­ed Har­ry as a son. He has known noth­ing but ne­glect and of­ten cru­el­ty at your hands. The best that can be said is that he has at least es­caped the ap­palling dam­age you have in­flict­ed up­on the un­for­tu­nate boy sit­ting be­tween you.”

Both Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non looked around in­stin­clive­ly, as though ex­pect­ing to see some­one oth­er than Dud­ley squeezed be­tween them.

“Us — mis­treat Dud­ders? What d’you — ?” be­gan Un­cle Ver­non fu­ri­ous­ly, but Dum­ble­dore raised his ringer for si­lence, a si­lence which fell as though he had struck Un­cle Ver­non dumb.

“The mag­ic I evoked fif­teen years ago means that Har­ry has pow­er­ful pro­tec­tion while he can still call this house ‘home.’ How­ev­er mis­er­able he has been here, how­ev­er un­wel­come, how­ev­er bad­ly treat­ed, you have at least, grudg­ing­ly, al­lowed him house­room. This mag­ic will cease to op­er­ate the mo­ment that Har­ry turns sev­en­teen; in oth­er words, at the mo­ment he be­comes a man. I ask on­ly this: that you al­low Har­ry to re­turn, once more, to this house, be­fore his sev­en­teenth birth­day, which will en­sure that the pro­tec­tion con­tin­ues un­til that time.”

None of the Durs­leys said any­thing. Dud­ley was frown­ing slight­ly, as though he was still try­ing to work out when he had ev­er been mis­treat­ed. Un­cle Ver­non looked as though he had some­thing stuck in his throat; Aunt Petu­nia, how­ev­er, was odd­ly flushed.

“Well, Har­ry… time for us to be off,” said Dum­ble­dore at last, stand­ing up and straight­en­ing his long black cloak. “Un­til we meet again,” he said to the Durs­leys, who looked as though that mo­ment could wait for­ev­er as far as they were con­cerned, and af­ter doff­ing his hat, he swept from the room.

“Bye,” said Har­ry hasti­ly to the Durs­leys, and fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore, who paused be­side Har­ry’s trunk, up­on which Hed­wig’s cage was perched.

“We do not want to be en­cum­bered by these just now,” he said, pulling out his wand again. “I shall send them to the Bur­row to await us there. How­ev­er, I would like you to bring your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak… just in case.”

Har­ry ex­tract­ed his cloak from his trunk with some dif­fi­cul­ty, try­ing not to show Dum­ble­dore the mess with­in. When he had stuffed it in­to an in­side pock­et of his jack­et, Dumb­iedore waved his wand and the trunk, cage, and Hed­wig van­ished. Dum­ble­dore then waved his wand again, and the front door opened on­to cool, misty dark­ness.

“And now, Har­ry, let us step out in­to the night and pur­sue that flighty temptress, ad­ven­ture.”





