Chapter 30: The White Tomb


All lessons were sus­pend­ed, all ex­am­ina­tions post­poned. Some stu­dents were hur­ried away from Hog­warts by their par­ents over the next cou­ple of days - the Patil twins were gone be­fore break­fast on the morn­ing fol­low­ing Dum­ble­dore’s death and Zacharias Smith was es­cort­ed from the cas­tle by his haughty­look­ing fa­ther. Sea­mus Finni­gan, on the oth­er hand, re­fused point­blank to ac­com­pa­ny his moth­er home; they had a shout­ing match in the En­trance Hall which was re­solved when she agreed that he could re­main be­hind for the fu­ner­al. She had dif­fi­cul­ty in find­ing a bed in Hogsmeade, Sea­mus told Har­ry and Ron, for wiz­ards and witch­es were pour­ing in­to the vil­lage, prepar­ing to pay their last re­spects to Durn­ble­dore.

Some ex­cite­ment was caused among the younger stu­dents, who had nev­er seen it be­fore, when a pow­derblue car­riage the size of a house, pulled by a dozen gi­ant winged pa­lo­mi­nos, came soar­ing out of the sky in the late af­ter­noon be­fore the fu­ner­al and land­ed on the edge of the For­est. Har­ry watched from a win­dow as a gi­gan­tic and hand­some olive­skinned, black­haired wom­an de­scend­ed the car­riage steps and threw her­self in­to the wait­ing Ha­grid’s arms. Mean­while a del­ega­tion of Min­istry of­fi­cials, in­clud­ing the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic him­self, was be­ing ac­com­mo­dat­ed with­in the cas­tle. Har­ry was dili­gent­ly avoid­ing con­tact with any of them; he

was sure that, soon­er or lat­er, he would be asked again to ac­count for Dum­ble­dore’s last ex­cur­sion from Hog­warts.

Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny were spend­ing all of their time to­geth­er. The beau­ti­ful weath­er seemed to mock them; Har­ry could imag­ine how it would have been if Durn­ble­dore had not died, and they had had this time to­geth­er at the very end of the year, Gin­ny’s ex­am­ina­tions fin­ished, the pres­sure of home­work lift­ed … and hour by hour, he put off say­ing the thing that he knew he must say, do­ing what he knew it was right to do, be­cause it was too hard to for­go his best source of com­fort.

They vis­it­ed the hos­pi­tal wing twice a day: Neville had been dis­charged, but Bill re­mained un­der Madam Pom­frey’s care. His scars were as bad as ev­er; in truth, he now bore a dis­tinct re­sem­blance to Mad­Eye Moody, though thank­ful­ly with both eyes and legs, but in per­son­al­ity he seemed jusi the same as ev­er. All that ap­peared to have changed was that he now had a great lik­ing for very rare steaks.

‘… so eet ees lucky ‘e is mar­ry­ing me,’ said Fleur hap­pi­ly, plump­ing up Bill’s pil­lows, ‘be­cause ze British over­cook their meat, I ‘ave al­ways said this.’

‘I sup­pose I’m just go­ing to have to ac­cept that he re­al­ly is go­ing to mar­ry her,’ sighed Gin­ny lat­er that evening, as she, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat be­side the open win­dow of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, look­ing out over the twilit grounds,

‘She’s not that bad,’ said Har­ry. ‘Ug­ly, though,’ he added hasti­ly, as Gin­ny raised her eye­brows, and she let out a re­luc­tant gig­gle.

‘Well, I sup­pose if Mum can stand it, 1 can.’

‘Any­one else we know died?’ Ron asked Hermione, who was pe­rus­ing the Evening Prophet.

Hermione winced at the forced tough­ness in his voice.

‘No,’ she said re­prov­ing­ly, fold­ing up ihe news­pa­per. ‘They’re still look­ing for Snape, but no sign …’

‘Of course there isn’t,’ said Har­ry, who be­came an­gry ev­ery lime this sub­ject cropped up. They won’t find Snape till they find Volde­mort, and see­ing as they’ve nev­er man­aged to do that in all this time …’

‘I’m go­ing to go to bed,’ yawned Gin­ny. ‘I haven’t been sleep­ing thai well since … well … I could do with some sleep.’

She kissed Har­ry (Ron looked away point­ed­ly), waved al the oth­er two and de­part­ed for the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries. The mo­ment the door had closed be­hind her, Hermione leaned for­wards to­wards Har­ry with a most Hermioneish look on her face.

‘Har­ry, I found some­thing ou( this morn­ing, in the li­brary ..,’

‘R.A.B.?’ said Har­ry, silling up straight.

He did not feel the way he had so of­ten felt be­fore, ex­cit­ed, cu­ri­ous, burn­ing to get to the bot­tom of a mys­tery; he sim­ply knew that the task of dis­cov­er­ing the truth about the re­al Hor­crux had to be com­plet­ed be­fore he could move a lit­tle fur­ther along the dark and wind­ing path stretch­ing ahead of him, the path that he and Dum­ble­dore had set out up­on to­geth­er, and which he now knew he would have to jour­ney alone. There might still be as many as four Hor­crux­es out there some­where and each would need to be found and elim­inat­ed be­fore there was even a pos­si­bil­ity that Volde­mort could be killed. He kept recit­ing their names to him­self, as though by list­ing them he could bring them with­in reach: ‘the lock­et .., the cup … the snake … some­thing of Gryffind­or’s or Raven­claw’s … the lock­et … the cup … the snake … some­thing of Gryffind­or’s or Raven­claw’s …’

This mantra seemed to pulse through Har­ry’s mind as he

fell asleep at night, and his dreams were thick with cups, lock­ets and mys­te­ri­ous ob­jects that he could not quite reach, though Dum­ble­dore help­ful­ly of­fered Har­ry a rope lad­der that turned to snakes the mo­ment he be­gan to climb …

He had shown Hermione the note in­side the lock­et the morn­ing af­ter Dum­ble­dore’s death, and al­though she had not im­me­di­ate­ly recog­nised the ini­tials as be­long­ing to some ob­scure wiz­ard about whom she had been read­ing, she had since been rush­ing off to the li­brary a lit­tle more of­ten than was strict­ly nec­es­sary for some­body who had no home­work to do.

‘No,’ she said sad­ly, ‘I’ve been try­ing, Har­ry, but I haven’t found any­thing … there are a cou­ple of rea­son­ably well­known wiz­ards with those ini­tials - Ros­alind Antigone Bungs … Ru­pert “Axe­banger” Brook­stan­ton … but they don’t seem to fit at all. Judg­ing by that note, the per­son who stole the Hor­crux knew Volde­mort, and I can’t find a shred of ev­idence that Bungs or Axe­banger ev­er had any­thing to do with him … no, ac­tu­al­ly, it’s about … well, Snape.’

She looked ner­vous even say­ing the name again.

‘What about him?’ asked Har­ry heav­ily, slump­ing back in his chair.

‘Well, it’s just that I was sort of right about the Half­Blood Prince busi­ness,’ she said ten­ta­tive­ly.

‘D’you have to rub it in, Hermione? How tTy­ou think 1 feel about that now?’

‘No - no - Har­ry, I didn’t mean that!’ she said hasti­ly, look­ing around to check that they were not be­ing over­heard. ‘It’s just that 1 was right about Eileen Prince once own­ing the book. You see … she was Snape’s moth­er!’

T thought she wasn’t much of a look­er,’ said Ron. Hermione ig­nored him.

‘1 was go­ing through ihe rest of the old Prophets and there

was a tiny an­nounce­ment about Eileen Prince mar­ry­ing a man called To­bias Snape, and then lat­er an an­nounce­ment say­ing that she’d giv­en birth to a -’

‘- mur­der­er,’ spat Har­ry.

‘Well … yes,’ said Hermione. ‘So … 1 was sort of right. Snape must have been proud of be­ing “half a Prince”, you see? To­bias Snape was a Mug­gie from what it said in the Prophet’

‘Yeah, that fits,’ said Har­ry. ‘He’d play up the pure­blood side so he could get in with Lu­cius Mal­foy and the rest of them … he’s just like Volde­mort. Pure­blood moth­er, Mug­gie fa­ther … ashamed of his par­ent­age, try­ing to make him­self feared us­ing the Dark Arts, gave him­self an im­pres­sive new name - Lard Volde­mort - the Half­Blood Prince - how could Dum­ble­dore have missed -?’

He broke off, look­ing out of the win­dow. He could not stop him­self dwelling up­on Dum­ble­dore’s in­ex­cus­able trust in Snape … but as Hermione had just in­ad­ver­tent­ly re­mind­ed him, he, Har­ry, had been tak­en in just the same … in spite of the in­creas­ing nas­ti­ness of those scrib­bled spells, he had re­fused to be­lieve ill of the boy who had been so clever, who had helped him so much …

Helped him … it was an al­most un­en­durable thought, now …

‘I still don’t get why he didn’t turn you in for us­ing that book,’ said Ron. ‘He must’ve known where you were get­ting it ali from.’

‘He knew,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. ‘He knew when I used Sec­fum­sem­pra. He didn’t re­al­ly need Legili­men­cy … he might even have known be­fore then, with Slughom talk­ing about how bril­liant I was at Po­tions … shouldn’t have left his old book in the bot­tom of that cup­board, should he?’

‘But why didn’t he turn you in?’

‘I don’t ihink he want­ed to as­so­ciate him­self with that book,’ said Hermione. ‘I don’t think Dum­ble­dore would have liked it very much if he’d known. And even if Snape pre­tend­ed it hadn’t been his, Slughom would have recog­nised his writ­ing at once. Any­way, the book was left in Snape’s old class­room, and I’ll bet Dum­ble­dore knew his moth­er was called “Prince”.’

T should’ve shown the book to Dum­ble­dore,’ said Har­ry. ‘All that lime he was show­ing me how Volde­mort was evil even when he was at school, and 1 had proof Snape was, too -’

‘”Evil” is a strong word,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly.

‘You were the one who kept telling me the book was dan­ger­ous!’

‘I’m try­ing to say, Har­ry, that you’re pulling too much blame on your­self. 1 thought the Prince seemed to have a nasty sense of hu­mour, but I would nev­er have guessed he was a po­ten­tial killer …’

‘None of us could’ve guessed Snape would … you know,’ said Ron.

Si­lence fell be­tween them, each of them lost in their own thoughts, but Har­ry was sure that they, like him, were think­ing about the fol­low­ing morn­ing, when Dum­ble­dore’s body would be laid to rest. Har­ry had nev­er at­tend­ed a fu­ner­al be­fore; there had been no body to bury when Sir­ius had died. He did not know what to ex­pect and was a lit­tle wor­ried about what he might see, about how he would feel. He won­dered whether Dum­ble­dore’s death would be more re­al to him once the fu­ner­al was over. Though he had mo­ments when the hor­ri­ble fact of it threat­ened to over­whelm him, there were blank stretch­es of numb­ness where, de­spite the fact that no­body was talk­ing about any­thing else in the whole cas­tle, he still found it dif­fi­cult 10 be­lieve that Dum­ble­dore

had re­al­ly gone. Ad­mit­ted­ly he had not, as he had with Sir­ius, looked des­per­ate­ly for some kind of loop­hole, some way that Dum­ble­dore would come back … he felt in his pock­et for the cold chain of the fake Hor­crux, which he now car­ried with him ev­ery­where, not as a tal­is­man, but as a re­min­der of what it had cost and what re­mained still to do.

Har­ry rose ear­ly to pack the next day; the Hog­warts Ex­press would be leav­ing an hour af­ter the fu­ner­al. Down­stairs he found the mood in the Great Hall sub­dued. Ev­ery­body was wear­ing their dress robes and no one seemed very hun­gry. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had left the throne­like chair in the mid­dle of the staff ta­ble emp­ty. Ha­grid’s chair was des­ert­ed too: Har­ry thought thai per­haps he had not been able to face break­fast; but Snape’s place had been un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly filled by Ru­fus Scrim­geour. Har­ry avoid­ed his yel­low­ish eyes as they scanned the Hall; Har­ry had the un­com­fort­able feel­ing that Scrim­geour was look­ing for him. Among Scrim­geour’s en­tourage Har­ry spot­ted the red hair and horn­rimmed glass­es of Per­cy Weasley. Ron gave no sign that he was aware of Per­cy, apart from stab­bing pieces of kip­per with un­wont­ed ven­om.

Over at the Slytherin ta­ble Crabbe and Goyle were mut­ter­

ing to­geth­er. Hulk­ing boys though they were, they looked

odd­ly lone­ly with­out the tall, pale fig­ure of Mal­foy be­tween

them, boss­ing them around. Har­ry had not spared Mal­foy

much thought. His an­imos­ity was all for Snape, but he had

not for­got­ten the fear in Mal­foy’s voice on that Tow­er top, nor

the fact that he had low­ered his wand be­fore the oth­er Death

Eaters ar­rived. Har­ry did not be­lieve that Mal­foy would have

killed Dum­ble­dore. He de­spised Mal­foy still for his in­fatu­

ation with the Dark Arts, but now the ti­ni­est drop of pity

min­gled with his dis­like. Where, Har­ry won­dered, was Mal­foy

now, and what was Volde­mort mak­ing him do un­der threat of

killing him and his par­ents? ? •••>.

Har­ry’s thoughts were in­ter­rupt­ed by a nudge in the ribs from Gin­ny. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had risen to her feet and the mourn­ful hum in the Hall died away at once.

‘It is near­ly time,’ she said. ‘Please fol­low your Heads of House out in­to the grounds. Gryffind­ors, af­ter me.’

They filed out from be­hind their bench­es in near si­lence. Har­ry glimpsed Slughorn at the head of the Slytherin col­umn, wear­ing mag­nif­icent long emer­ald­green robes em­broi­dered with sil­ver. He had nev­er seen Pro­fes­sor Sprout, Head of the Huf­flepuffs, look­ing so clean; there was not a sin­gle patch on her hat, and when they reached the En­trance Hall, they found Madam Pince stand­ing be­side Filch, she in a thick black veil that fell to her knees, he in an an­cient black suit and tie reek­ing of moth­bails.

They were head­ing, as Har­ry saw when he stepped out on to the stone steps from the front doors, to­wards the lake. The warmth of the sun ca­ressed his face as they fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in si­lence to the place where hun­dreds of chairs had been set out in rows. An aisle ran down the cen­tre of them: there was a mar­ble ta­ble stand­ing at the front, all chairs fac­ing it. It was the most beau­ti­ful sum­mer’s day.

An ex­traor­di­nary as­sort­ment of peo­ple had al­ready set­tled in­to half of the chairs: shab­by and smart, old and young. Most Har­ry did not recog­nise, but there were a few that he did, in­clud­ing mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix: Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt, Mad­Eye Moody, Tonks, her hair mirac­ulous­ly re­turned to vi­videst pink, Re­mus Lupin, with whom she seemed to be hold­ing hands, Mr and Mrs Weasley, Bill sup­port­ed by Fleur and fol­lowed by Fred and George, who were wear­ing jack­ets of black drag­on­skin. Then there was Madame Maxime, who took up twoan­da­half chairs on her own, Tom, the land­lord of the Leaky Caul­dron, Ara­bel­la Figg, Har­ry’s Squib neigh­bour, the hairy bass play­er from the

wiz­ard­mg group the Weird bis­ters, hrnie Frang, dnver ol the Knight Bus, Madam Malkin, of the robe shop in Di­agon Al­ley, and some peo­ple whom Har­ry mere­ly knew by sight, such as the bar­man of the Hog’s Head and the witch who pushed the trol­ley on the Hog­warts Ex­press. The cas­tle ghosts were there too, bare­ly vis­ible in the bright sun­light, dis­cernible on­ly when they moved, shim­mer­ing in­sub­stan­tial­ly in the gleam­ing air.

Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny filed in­to seats at the end of a row be­side the lake. Peo­ple were whis­per­ing to each oth­er; it sound­ed like a breeze in the grass, but the bird­song was loud­er by far. The crowd con­tin­ued to swell; with a great rush of af­fec­tion for both of them, Har­ry saw Neville be­ing helped in­to a seat by Lu­na. They alone of all the DA had re­spond­ed to Hermione’s sum­mons the night that Dum­ble­dore had died, and Har­ry knew why: they were the ones who had missed the DA most … prob­ably the ones who had checked their coins reg­ular­ly in the hope that there would be an­oth­er meet­ing …

Cor­nelius Fudge walked past them to­wards the front rows, his ex­pres­sion mis­er­able, twirling his green bowler hat as usu­al; Har­ry next recog­nised Ri­ta Skeeter, who, he was in­fu­ri­at­ed to see, had a note­book clutched in her red­takmed hand; and then, with a worse jolt of fury, Do­lores Um­bridge, an un­con­vinc­ing ex­pres­sion of grief up­on her toad­like face, a black vel­vet bow set atop her iron­coloured curls. At the sight of the cen­taur Firen­ze, who was stand­ing like a sen­tinel near the wa­ter’s edge, she gave a start and scur­ried hasti­ly in­to a seat a good dis­tance away.

The staff were seat­ed at last. Har­ry could see Scrim­geour look­ing grave and dig­ni­fied in the front row with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. He won­dered whether Scrim­geour or any of these im­por­tant peo­ple were re­al­ly sor­ry that Dum­ble­dore wasand he for­got his dis­like of the Min­istry in look­ing around for the source of it. He was not the on­ly one: many heads were turn­ing, search­ing, a lit­tle alarmed.

‘In there,’ whis­pered Gin­ny in Har­ry’s ear.

And he saw them in the clear green sun­lit wa­ter, inch­es be­low the sur­face, re­mind­ing him hor­ri­bly of the In­feri; a cho­rus of mer­peo­ple singing in a strange lan­guage he did not un­der­stand, their pal­lid faces rip­pling, their pur­plish hair flow­ing all around them. The mu­sic made the hair on Har­ry’s neck stand up and yet it was not un­pleas­ant. It spoke very clear­ly of loss and of de­spair. As he looked down in­to the wild faces of the singers he had the feel­ing that they, at least, were sor­ry for Dum­ble­dore’s pass­ing. Then Gin­ny nudged him again and he looked round.

Ha­grid was walk­ing slow­ly up the aisle be­tween the chairs. He was cry­ing quite silent­ly, his face gleam­ing with tears, and in his arms, wrapped in pur­ple vel­vet span­gled with gold­en stars, was what Har­ry knew to be Dum­ble­dore’s body. A sharp pain rose in Har­ry’s throat at this sight: for a mo­ment, the strange mu­sic and the knowl­edge that Dum­ble­dore’s body was so close seemed to take all warmth from the day. Ron looked white and shocked. Tears were falling thick and fast in­to both Gin­ny and Hermione’s laps.

They could not see clear­ly what was hap­pen­ing at the front. Ha­grid seemed to have placed the body care­ful­ly up­on the ta­ble. Now he re­treat­ed down the aisle, blow­ing his nose with loud trum­pet­ing nois­es that drew scan­dalised looks from some, in­clud­ing, Har­ry saw, Do­lores Um­bridge … but Har­ry knew that Dum­ble­dore would not have cared. He tried to make a friend­ly ges­ture to Ha­grid as he passed, but Ha­grid’s eyes were so swollen it was a won­der he could see where he was go­ing. Har­ry glanced at the back row to which Ha­grid

was head­ing and re­alised what was guid­ing him, for there, dressed in a jack­et and trousers each the size of a small mar­quee, was the gi­ant Grawp, his great ug­ly boul­der­like head bowed, docile, al­most hu­man. Ha­grid sat down next to his half­broth­er and Grawp palled Ha­grid hard on the head, so that his chair legs sank in­to the ground. Har­ry had a won­der­ful mo­men­tary urge to laugh. But then the mu­sic stopped and he turned to face the front again.

A lit­tle tufty­haired man in plain black robes had got to his feet and stood now in front of Dum­ble­dore’s body. Har­ry could not hear what he was say­ing. Odd words float­ed back to them over the hun­dreds of beads. ‘No­bil­ity of spir­it’ … ‘in­tel­lec­tu­al con­tri­bu­tion’ … ‘great­ness of heart’ … it did not mean very much. It had lit­tle to do with Dum­ble­dore as Har­ry had known him. He sud­den­ly re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore’s idea of a few words: ‘nitwit’, ‘odd­ment’, ‘blub­ber’ and ‘tweak 1, and again, had to sup­press a grin … what was the mat­ter with him?

There was a soft splash­ing noise to his left and he saw that the mer­peo­ple had bro­ken the sur­face to lis­ten, too. He re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore crouch­ing at the wa­ter’s edge two years ago, very close to where Har­ry now sat, and con­vers­ing in Mer­mish with the Mer­chief­tai­ness. Har­ry won­dered where Dum­ble­dore had learned Mer­mish. There was so much he had nev­er asked him, so much he should have said …

And then, with­out warn­ing, it swept over him, the dread­ful truth, more com­plete­ly and un­de­ni­ably than it had un­til now. Dum­ble­dore was dead, gone … he clutched the cold lock­et in his hand so tight­ly that it hurt, but he could not pre­vent hot tears spilling from his eyes: he looked away from Gin­ny and the oth­ers and stared out over the lake, to­wards the For­est, as the lit­tle man in black droned on … there was move­ment among the trees. The cen­taurs had come to pay their re­spects, too. They did not move in­to the open but Har­ry saw them

stand­ing quite still, halfhid­den in shad­ow, watch­ing the wiz­ards, their bows hang­ing at their sides. And Har­ry re­mem­bered his first night­mar­ish trip in­to the For­est, the first time he had ev­er en­coun­tered the thing that was then Volde­mort, and how he had faced him, and how he and Dum­ble­dore had dis­cussed fight­ing a los­ing bat­tle not long there­af­ter. It was im­por­tant, Dum­ble­dore said, to fight, and fight again, and keep fight­ing, for on­ly then could evil be kept at bay, though nev­er quite er­ad­icat­ed …

And Har­ry saw very clear­ly as be sal there un­der the hot sun bow peo­ple who cared about him had stood in front of him one by one, his moth­er, his fa­ther, his god­fa­ther, and fi­nal­ly Dum­ble­dore, all de­ter­mined to pro­tect him; but now that was over. He could not let any­body else stand be­tween him and Volde­mort; he must aban­don for ev­er the il­lu­sion he ought to have lost at the age of one: that the shel­ter of a par­ent’s arms meant that noth­ing could hurt him. There was no wak­ing from his night­mare, no com­fort­ing whis­per in the dark that he was safe re­al­ly, that it was all in his imag­ina­tion; the last and great­est of his pro­te­clors had died and he was more alone than he had ev­er been be­fore.

The lit­tle man in black had stopped speak­ing at last and re­sumed his seat. Har­ry wait­ed for some­body else to get to their feet; he ex­pect­ed speech­es, prob­ably from the Min­is­ter, but no­body moved.

Then sev­er­al peo­ple screamed. Bright, white flames had erupt­ed around Dum­ble­dore’s body and the ta­ble up­on which it lay: high­er and high­er they rose, ob­scur­ing the body. White smoke spi­ralled in­to the air and made strange shapes: Har­ry thought, for one heart­stop­ping mo­ment, that he saw a phoenix fly joy­ful­ly in­to the blue, but next sec­ond the fire had van­ished. In its place was a white mar­ble tomb, en­cas­ing Dum­ble­dore’s body and the ta­ble on which he had rest­ed.

There were a few more cries of shock as a show­er of ar­rows soared through the air, but they fell far short of the crowd. It was, Har­ry knew, the cen­taurs’ trib­ute: he saw them turn tail and dis­ap­pear back in­to the cool trees. Like­wise the mer­peo­ple sank slow­ly back in­to the green wa­ter and were lost from view.

Har­ry looked ai Gin­ny, Ron and Hermione: Ron’s face was screwed up as though the sun­light was blind­ing him. Hermione’s face was glazed with tears, but Gin­ny was no longer cry­ing. She met Har­ry’s gaze with the same hard, blaz­ing look that he had seen when she had hugged him af­ter win­ning the Quid­ditch Cup in his ab­sence, and he knew that at that mo­ment they un­der­stood each oth­er per­fect­ly, and that when he told her what he was go­ing to do now, she would not say ‘Be care­ful’, or ‘Don’t do it’, but ac­cept his de­ci­sion, be­cause she would not have ex­pect­ed any­thing less of him. And so he steeled him­self to say what he had known he must say ev­er since Dum­ble­dore had died.

‘Gin­ny, lis­ten …’ he said very qui­et­ly, as the buzz of con­ver­sa­tion grew loud­er around them and peo­ple be­gan to get to their feet. ‘I can’t be in­volved with you any more. We’ve got to stop see­ing each oth­er. We can’t be to­geth­er.’

She said, with an odd­ly twist­ed smile, ‘It’s for some stupid, no­ble rea­son, isn’t it?’

‘It’s been like … like some­thing out of some­one else’s life, these last few weeks with you,’ said Har­ry. ‘But 1 can’t … we can’t … I’ve got things to do alone now.’

She did not cry, she sim­ply looked at him,

‘Volde­mort us­es peo­ple his en­emies are close to. He’s al­ready used you as bait once, and that was just be­cause you’re my best friend’s sis­ter. Think how much dan­ger you’ll be in if we keep this up. He’ll know, he’ll find out. He’ll try and get to me through you.’

‘What if I don’t care?’ said Gin­ny fierce­ly.

‘I care,’ said Har­ry. ‘How do you think I’d feel if this was your fu­ner­al … and it was my fault …’

She looked away from him, over the lake.

T nev­er re­al­ly gave up on you,’ she said. ‘Not re­al­ly. I al­ways hoped … Hermione told me to get on with life, maybe go out with some oth­er peo­ple, re­lax a bit around you, be­cause I nev­er used to be able to talk if you were in the room, re­mem­ber? And she thought you might take a bit more no­tice if I was a bit more - my­self.’

‘Smart girl, that Hermione,’ said Har­ry, try­ing to smile. ‘I just wish I’d asked you soon­er. We couk­Tve had ages … months … years maybe …’

‘But you’ve been too busy sav­ing the wiz­ard­ing world,’ said Gin­ny, halflaugh­ing. ‘Well … I can’t say I’m sur­prised. I knew this would hap­pen in the end. I knew you wouldn’t be hap­py un­less you were hunt­ing Volde­mort. Maybe that’s why I like you so much.’

Har­ry could not bear to hear these things, nor did he think his res­olu­tion would hold if he re­mained sit­ting be­side her. Ron, he saw, was now hold­ing Hermione and stroking her hair while she sobbed in­to his shoul­der, tears drip­ping from the end of his own long nose. With a mis­er­able ges­ture, Har­ry got up, turned his back on Gin­ny and on Dum­ble­dore’s tomb and walked away around the lake. Mov­ing felt much more bear­able than sit­ting still: just as set­ting out as soon as pos­si­ble to track down the Hor­crux­es and kill Volde­mort would feel bet­ter than wait­ing to do it …

‘Har­ry!’

He turned. Ru­fus Scrim­geour was limp­ing rapid­ly to­wards him around the bank, lean­ing on his walk­ing stick.

‘I’ve been hop­ing to have a word … do you mind if I walk a lit­tle way with you?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry in­dif­fer­ent­ly, and set off again.

‘Har­ry, this was a dread­ful tragedy,’ said Scrim­geour qui­et­ly, ‘I can­not tell you how ap­palled I was to hear of it. Dum­ble­dore was a very great wiz­ard. We had our dis­agree­ments, as you know, but no one knows bet­ter than 1 -’

•What do you want?’ asked Har­ry flat­ly.

Scrim­geour looked an­noyed but, as be­fore, hasti­ly mod­ified his ex­pres­sion to one of sor­row­ful un­der­stand­ing.

‘You are, of course, dev­as­tat­ed,’ he said. ‘I know that you were very close to Dum­ble­dore. I think you may have been his favourite ev­er pupil. The bond be­tween the two of you -’

‘What do you want?’ Har­ry re­peat­ed, com­ing to a halt.

Scrim­geour stopped too, leaned on his stick and stared at Har­ry, his ex­pres­sion shrewd now.

‘The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that he died.’

‘Whose word?’ said Har­ry.

‘Some­body Stu­pe­fied a Death Eater on top of the Tow­er af­ter Dum­ble­dore died. There were al­so two broom­sticks up there. The Min­istry can add two and two, Har­ry.’

‘Glad to hear it,’ said Har­ry. ‘Well, where I went with Dum­ble­dore and what we did is my busi­ness. He didn’t want peo­ple to know.’

‘Such loy­al­ty is ad­mirable, of course,’ said Scrim­geour, who seemed to be re­strain­ing his ir­ri­ta­tion with dif­fi­cul­ty, ‘bul Dum­ble­dore is gone, Har­ry. He’s gone.’

‘He will on­ly be gone from the school when none here are loy­al to him,’ said Har­ry, smil­ing in spite of him­self.

‘My dear boy … even Dum­ble­dore can­not re­turn from the-’

‘I am not say­ing he can. You wouldn’t un­der­stand. But I’ve got noth­ing to tell you.’

Scrim­geour hes­itat­ed, then said, in what was ev­ident­ly

sup­posed to be a tone of del­ica­cy, The Min­istry can of­fer you all sorts of pro­tec­tion, you know, Har­ry. I would be de­light­ed to place a cou­ple of my Au­rors at your ser­vice -’

Har­ry laughed.

‘Volde­mort wants to kill me him­self and Au­rors won’t stop him. So thanks for the of­fer, but no thanks.’

‘So,’ said Scrim­geour, his voice cold now, ‘the re­quest 1 made of you at Christ­mas -’

‘What re­quest? Oh yeah … the one where I tell the world what a great job you’re do­ing in ex­change for —’

‘- for rais­ing ev­ery­one’s morale!’ snapped Scrim­geour.

Har­ry con­sid­ered him for a mo­ment.

‘Re­leased Stan Shun­pike yet?’

Scrim­geour turned a nasty pur­ple colour high­ly remin­is­cent of Un­cle Ver­non.

‘1 see you are -’

‘Dum­ble­dore’s man through and through,’ said Har­ry. ‘That’s right.’

Scrim­geour glared at him for an­oth­er mo­ment, then turned and limped away with­out an­oth­er word. Har­ry could see Per­cy and the rest of the Min­istry del­ega­tion wait­ing for him, cast­ing ner­vous glances at the sob­bing Ha­grid and Grawp, who were still in their seats. Ron and Hermione were hur­ry­ing to­wards Har­ry, pass­ing Scrim­geour go­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion; Har­ry turned and walked slow­ly on, wait­ing for them to catch up, which they fi­nal­ly did in the shade of a beech tree un­der which they had sat in hap­pi­er times.

“What did Scrim­geour want?’ Hermione whis­pered.

‘Same as he want­ed at Christ­mas,’ shrugged Har­ry. ‘Want­ed me to give him in­side in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore and be the Min­istry’s new poster boy.’

Ron seemed to strug­gle with him­self for a mo­ment, then he said loud­ly to Hermione, ‘Look, let me go back and hit Per­cy!’

‘No,’ she said firm­ly, grab­bing his arm.

‘It’ll make me feel bet­ter!’

Har­ry laughed. Even Hermione grinned a lit­tle, though her smile fad­ed as she looked up at the cas­tle.

‘I can’t bear the idea that we might nev­er come back.’ she said soft­ly. ‘How can Hog­warts close?’

‘Maybe it won’t,’ said Ron. ‘We’re not in any more dan­ger here than we are at home, are we? Ev­ery­where’s the same now. I’d even say Hog­warts is safer, there are more wiz­ards in­side to de­fend the place. What d’you reck­on, Har­ry?’

‘I’m not com­ing back even if it does re­open,’ said Har­ry.

Ron gaped at him, but Hermione said sad­ly, ‘I knew you were go­ing to say that. But then what will you do? 1

‘I’m go­ing back to the Durs­leys’ once more, be­cause Dum­ble­dore want­ed me to,’ said Har­ry. ‘But it’ll be a short vis­it, and then I’ll be gone for good.’

‘But where will you go if you don’t come back to school?’

‘I thought I might go back to Go­dric’s Hol­low,’ Har­ry mut­tered. He had had the idea in his head ev­er since the night of Dum­ble­dore’s death. ‘For me, it start­ed there, all of it. I’ve just got a feel­ing I need to go there. And I can vis­it my par­ents’ graves, I’d like that.’

‘And then what?’ said Ron.

Then I’ve got to track down the rest of the Hor­crux­es, haven’t I?’ said Har­ry, his eyes up­on Dum­ble­dore’s white tomb, re­flect­ed in the wa­ter on the oth­er side of the lake. That’s what he want­ed me to do, that’s why he told me all about them. If Dum­ble­dore was right - and I’m sure he was -there are still four of them out there. I’ve got to find them and de­stroy them and then I’ve got to go af­ter the sev­enth bit of Volde­mort’s soul, the bit that’s still in his body, and I’m the one who’s go­ing to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape

along the way,’ he added, ’so much trie bet­ter tor me, so mucn the worse for him.’

There was a long si­lence. The crowd had al­most dis­persed now, the strag­glers giv­ing the mon­umen­tal fig­ure of Grawp a wide berth as he cud­dled Ha­grid, whose howls of grief were still echo­ing across the wa­ter.

‘We’ll be there, Har­ry,’ said Ron.

‘What?’

At your aunt and un­cle’s house,’ said Ron. ‘And then we’ll go with you, wher­ev­er you’re go­ing.’

‘No -’ said Har­ry quick­ly; he had not count­ed on this, he had meant them to un­der­stand that he was un­der­tak­ing this most dan­ger­ous jour­ney alone.

‘You said to us once be­fore,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly, ‘that there was time to turn back if we want­ed to. We’ve had time, haven’t we?’

‘We’re with you what­ev­er hap­pens,’ said Ron. ‘But, mate, you’re go­ing to have to come round my mum and dad’s house be­fore we do any­thing else, even Go­dric’s Hol­low.’

‘Why?’

‘Bill and Fleur’s wed­ding, re­mem­ber?’

Har­ry looked at him, star­tled; the idea that any­thing as nor­mal as a wed­ding could still ex­ist seemed in­cred­ible and yet won­der­ful.

‘Yeah, we shouldn’t miss that,’ he said fi­nal­ly.

His hand closed au­to­mat­ical­ly around the fake Hor­crux, but in spite of ev­ery­thing, in spite of the dark and twist­ing path he saw stretch­ing ahead for him­self, in spite of the fi­nal meet­ing with Volde­mort he knew must come, whether in a month, in a year, or in ten, he felt his heart lift at the thought that there was still one last gold­en day of peace left to en­joy with Ron and Hermione.

The End.





