Chapter 8: — Victorious Snape


Har­ry could not move a mus­cle. He lay there be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak feel­ing the blood from his nose flow, hot and wet, over his face, lis­ten­ing to the voic­es and foot­steps in the cor­ri­dor be­yond. His im­me­di­ate thought was that some­one would, sure­ly check the com­part­ments be­fore the train de­part­ed again. But at once came the dispir­it­ing re­al­iza­tion that even if some­body looked in­to the com­part­ment, he would be nei­ther seen nor heard. His best hope was that some­body else would walk in and step on him.

Har­ry had nev­er hat­ed Mal­foy more than as he lay there, like an ab­surd tur­tle on its back, blood drip­ping sick­en­ing­ly in­to his open mouth. What a stupid sit­ua­tion to have land­ed him­self in… and now the last few foot­steps were dy­ing away; ev­ery­one was shuf­fling along the dark plat­form out­side; he could hear the scrap­ing of trunks and loud bab­ble of talk.

Ron and Hermione would think that he had left the train with­out them. Once they ar­rived at Hog­warts and took their places in the Great Hall, looked up and down the Gryffind­or ta­ble a few times, and fi­nal­ly re­al­ized that he was not there, he, no doubt, would be halfway back to Lon­don.

He tried to make a sound, even a grunt, but it was im­pos­si­ble. Then he re­mem­bered that some wiz­ards, like Dum­ble­dore, could per­form spells with­out speak­ing, so he tried to sum­mon his wand, which had fall­en out of his hand, by say­ing the words “Ac­cio Wand!” over and over again in his head, but noth­ing hap­pened.

He thought he could hear the rustling of the trees that sur­round­ed the lake, and the faroff hoot of an owl, but no hint of a search be­ing made or even (he de­spised him­self slight­ly for hop­ing it) pan­icked voic­es won­der­ing where Har­ry Pot­ter had gone. A feel­ing of hope­less­ness spread through him as he imag­in­ed the con­voy of thes­tral­drawn car­riages trundling up to the school and the muf­fled yells of laugh­ter is­su­ing from whichev­er car­riage Mal­foy was rid­ing in, where he could be re­count­ing his at­tack on Har­ry to Crabbe, Goyle, Zabi­ni, and Pan­sy Parkin­son.

The train lurched, caus­ing Har­ry to roll over on­to his side. Now he was star­ing at the dusty un­der­side of the seats in­stead of the ceil­ing. The floor be­gan to vi­brate as the en­gine roared in­to life. The Ex­press was leav­ing and no­body knew he was still on it…

Then he felt his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak fly off him and a voice over­head said, “Wotch­er, Har­ry.”

There was a flash of red light and Har­ry’s body un­froze; he was able to push him­self in­to a more dig­ni­fied sit­ting po­si­tion, hasti­ly wipe the blood off his bruised race with the back of his hand, and raise his head to look up at Tonks, who was hold­ing the In­vis­ibili­iy Cloak she had just pulled away.

We’d bet­ter get out of here, quick­ly,” she said, as the train win­dows be­came ob­scured with steam and they be­gan to move out of the sta­tion. “Come on, we’ll jump.”

Har­ry hur­ried af­ter her in­to the cor­ri­dor. She pulled open the train door and leapt on­to the plat­form, which seemed to be slid­ing un­der­neath them as the train gath­ered mo­men­tum. He fol­lowed her, stag­gered a lit­tle on land­ing, then straight­ened up in time to see the gleam­ing scar­let steam en­gine pick up speed, round the cor­ner, and dis­ap­pear from view.

The cold night air was sooth­ing on his throb­bing nose. Tonks was look­ing at him; he felt an­gry and em­bar­rassed that he had been dis­cov­ered in such a ridicu­lous po­si­tion. Silent­ly she hand­ed him back the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“Who did it?”

“Dra­co Mal­foy,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Thanks for… well…”

“No prob­lem,” said Tonks, with­out smil­ing. From what Har­ry could see in the dark­ness, she was as mousy­haired and mis­er­ablelookin­ng as she had been when he had met her at the Bur­row. “I can fix your nose if you stand still.”

Har­ry did not think much of this idea; he had been in­tend­ing to vis­it Madam Pom­frey, the ma­tron, in whom he had a lit­tle more con­fi­dence when it came to Heal­ing Spells, but it seemed rude to say this, so he stayed stock­still and closed his eyes,

“Episkey” said Tonks.

Har­ry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold. He raised a hand and felt gin­ger­ly. It seemed to be mend­ed.

“Thanks a lot!”

“You’d bet­ter put that cloak back on, and we can walk up to the school,” said Tonks, still un­smil­ing. As Har­ry swung the cloak back over him­self, she waved her wand; an im­mense sil­very four­legged crea­ture erupt­ed from it and streaked off in­to the dark­ness.

”Was that a Pa­tronus?” asked Har­ry, who had seen Dum­ble­dore send mes­sages like this.

“Yes, I’m send­ing word to the cas­tle that I’ve got you or they’ll wor­ry. Come on, we’d bet­ter not daw­dle.”

They set off to­ward the lane that led to the school.

“How did you find me?”

“I no­ticed you hadn’t left the train and I knew you had that cloak. I thought you might be hid­ing for some rea­son. When I saw the blinds were drawn down on that com­part­ment I thought I’d check.”

“But what are you do­ing here, any­way?” Har­ry asked.

“I’m sta­tioned in Hogsmeade now, to give the school ex­tra pro­tec­tion,” said Tonks.

“Is it just you who’s sta­tioned up here, or — ?”

“No, Proud­foot, Sav­age, and Dawlish are here too.”

“Dawlish, that Au­ror Dum­ble­dore at­tacked last year?”

“That’s right.”

They trudged up the dark, de­sert­ed lane, fol­low­ing the fresh­ly made car­riage tracks. Har­ry looked side­ways at Tonks un­der his cloak. Last year she had been in­quis­itive (to the point of be­ing a lit­tle an­noy­ing at times), she had laughed eas­ily, she had made jokes. Now she seemed old­er and much more se­ri­ous and pur­pose­ful. Was this all the ef­fect of what had hap­pened at the Min­istry? He re­flect­ed un­com­fort­ably that Hermione would have sug­gest­ed he say some­thing con­sol­ing about Sir­ius to her, that it hadn’t been her fault at all, but he couldn’t bring him­self to do it. He was far from blam­ing her for Sir­ius’s death; it was no more her fault than any­one else’s (and much less than his), but he did not like talk­ing about Sir­ius if he could avoid it. And so they tramped on through the cold night in si­lence, Tonks’s long cloak whis­per­ing on the ground be­hind them.

Hav­ing al­ways trav­eled there by car­riage, Har­ry had nev­er be­fore ap­pre­ci­at­ed just how far Hog­warts was from Hogsmeade Sta­tion. With great re­lief he fi­nal­ly saw the tall pil­lars on ei­ther side of the gates, each topped with a winged boar. He was cold, he was hun­gry and he was quite keen to leave this new, gloomy Tonks be­hind. But when he put out a hand to push open the gates, he found them chained shut.

“Alo­ho­mo­ra!” he said con­fi­dent­ly, point­ing his wand at the pad­lock, but noth­ing hap­pened.

“That won’t work on these,” said Tonks. “Dum­ble­dore be­witched them him­self.”

Har­ry looked around, I could climb a wall,” he sug­gest­ed.

“No, you couldn’t,” said Tonks flat­ly. “An­ti­in­trud­er jinx­es on all of them. Se­cu­ri­ty’s been tight­ened a hun­dred­fold this sum­mer.”

“Well then,” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel an­noyed at her lack of help­ful­ness, “I sup­pose I’ll just have to sleep out here and wait for morn­ing.”

“Some­one’s com­ing down for you,” said Tonks, “Look.”

A lantern was bob­bing at the dis­tant foot of the cas­tle. Har­ry was so pleased to see it he felt he could even en­dure Filch’s wheezy crit­icisms of his tar­di­ness and rants about how his time­keep­ing would im­prove with the reg­ular ap­pli­ca­tion of thumb­screws. It was not un­til the glow­ing yel­low light was ten feet away from them, and had pulled off his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak so that he could be seen, that he rec­og­nized, with a rush of pure loathing, the up­lit hooked nose and long, black, greasy hair of Severus Snape.

“Well, well, well,” sneered Snape, tak­ing out his wand and tap­ping the pad­lock once, so that the chains snaked back­ward and the gates creaked open. “Nice of you to turn up, Pot­ter, al­though you have ev­ident­ly de­cid­ed that the wear­ing of school robes would de­tract from your ap­pear­an­ce.”

“I couldn’t change, I didn’t have my —” Har­ry be­gan, but Snape cut across him.

“There is no need to wait, Nympha­do­ra, Pot­ter is quite — ah

— safe in my hands.”

“I meant Ha­grid to get the mes­sage,” said Tonks, frown­ing.

“Ha­grid was late for the startofterm feast, just like Pot­ter here, so I took it in­stead. And in­ci­den­tal­ly,” said Snape, stand­ing back to al­low Har­ry to pass him, “I was in­ter­est­ed to see your new Pa­tronus.”

He shut the gates in her face with a loud clang and tapped the chains with his wand again, so that they slith­ered, clink­ing, back in­to place.

“I think you were bet­ter off with the old one,” said Snape, the mal­ice in his voice un­mis­tak­able. “The new one looks weak.”

As Snape swung the lantern about, Har­ry saw, fleet­ing­ly, a look of shock and anger on Tonks’s face. Then she was cov­ered in dark­ness once more.

“Good night,” Har­ry called to her over his shoul­der, as he be­gan the walk up to the school with Snape. “Thanks for … ev­ery­thing,”

“See you, Har­ry.”

Snape did not speak for a minute or so. Har­ry felt as though his body was gen­er­at­ing waves of ha­tred so pow­er­ful that it seemed in­cred­ible that Snape could not feel them burn­ing him. He had loathed Snape from their first en­counter, but Snape had placed him­self for­ev­er and ir­re­vo­ca­bly be­yond the pos­si­bil­ity of Har­ry’s for­give­ness by his at­ti­tude to­ward Sir­ius. What­ev­er Dum­ble­dore said, Har­ry had had time to think over the sum­mer, and had con­clud­ed that Snape’s snide re­marks to Sir­ius about re­main­ing safe­ly hid­den while the rest of the Or­der of the Phoenix were off fight­ing Volde­mort had prob­ably been a pow­er­ful fac­tor in Sir­ius rush­ing off to the Min­istry the night that he had died. Har­ry clung to this no­tion, be­cause it en­abled him to blame Snape, which felt sat­is­fy­ing, and al­so be­cause he knew that if any­one was not sor­ry that Sir­ius was dead, it was the man now strid­ing next to him in the dark­ness.

“Fifty points from Gryffind­or for late­ness, I think,” said Snape. “And, let me see, an­oth­er twen­ty for your Mug­gle at­tire. You know, I don’t be­lieve any House has ev­er been in neg­ative fig­ures this ear­ly in the term: We haven’t even start­ed pud­ding. You might have set a record, Pot­ter.”

The fury and ha­tred bub­bling in­side Har­ry seemed to blaze white­hot, but he would rather have been im­mo­bi­lized all the way

back to Lon­don than tell Snape why he was late.

“I sup­pose you want­ed to make an en­trance, did you?” Snape con­tin­ued. “And with no fly­ing car avail­able you de­cid­ed that burst­ing in­to the Great Hall halfway through the feast ought to cre­ate a dra­mat­ic ef­fect.”

Still Har­ry re­mained silent, though he thought his chest might ex­plode. He knew that Snape had come to fetch him for this, for the few min­utes when he could nee­dle and tor­ment Har­ry with­out any­one else lis­ten­ing.

They reached the cas­tle steps at last and as the great oak­en front doors swung open in­to the vast flagged en­trance hall, a burst of talk and laugh­ter and of tin­kling plates and glass­es greet­ed them through the doors stand­ing open in­to the Great Hail. Har­ry won­dered whether he could slip his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back on, there­by gain­ing his seat at the long Gryffind­or ta­ble (which, in­con­ve­nient­ly, was the far­thest from the en­trance hall) with­out be­ing no­ticed. As though he had read Har­ry’s mind, how­ev­er, Snape said, “No cloak. You can walk in so that ev­ery­one sees you, which is what you want­ed, I’m sure.”

Har­ry turned on the spot and marched straight through the open doors: any­thing to get away from Snape. The Great Hall with its four long House ta­bles and its staff ta­ble set at the top of the room was dec­orat­ed as usu­al with float­ing can­dles that made the plates be­low glit­ter and glow. It was all a shim­mer­ing blur to Har­ry, how­ev­er, who walked so fast that he was pass­ing the Huf­flepuff ta­ble be­fore peo­ple re­al­ly start­ed to stare, and by the time they were stand­ing up to get a good look at him, he had spot­ted Ron and Hermione, sped along the bench­es to­ward them, and forced his way in be­tween them.

“Where’ve you — blimey, what’ve you done to your face?” said Ron, gog­gling at him along with ev­ery­one else in the vicin­ity. I

“Why, what’s wrong with it?” said Har­ry, grab­bing a spoon and squint­ing at his dis­tort­ed re­flec­tion.

“You’re cov­ered in blood!” said Hermione. “Come here —”

She raised her wand, said “Ter­geo!” and si­phoned off the dried blood.

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, feel­ing his now clean face. “How’s my nose look­ing?

“Nor­mal,” said Her­moine anx­ious­ly. “Why shouldn’t it? Har­ry, what hap­pened? We’ve been ter­ri­fied!”

“I’ll tell you lat­er,” said Har­ry curt­ly. He was very con­scious that Gin­ny, Neville, Dean, and Sea­mus were lis­ten­ing in; even Near­ly Head­less Nick, the Gryffind­or ghost, had come float­ing along the bench to eaves­drop.

“But —” said Hermione.

“Not now, Hermione,” said Har­ry, in a dark­ly sig­nif­icant voice. He hoped very much that they would all as­sume he had been in­volved in some­thing hero­ic, pre­fer­ably in­volv­ing a cou­ple of Death Eaters and a de­men­tor. Of course, Mal­foy would spread the sto­ry as wide as he could, but there was al­ways a chance it wouldn’t reach too many Gryffind­or ears.

He reached across Ron for a cou­ple of chick­en legs and a hand­ful of chips, but be­fore he could take them they van­ished, to be re­placed with pud­dings.

“You missed the Sort­ing, any­way,” said Hermione, as Ron dived for a large choco­late gateau.

“Hat say any­thing in­ter­est­ing?” asked Har­ry, tak­ing a piece of trea­cle tart.

“More of the same, re­al­ly . . . ad­vis­ing us all to unite in the face en­emies, you know.”

“Dum­ble­dore men­tioned Volde­mort at all?”

“Not yet, but he al­ways saves his prop­er speech for af­ter the the feast doesn’t he? It can’t be long now.”

“Snape said Ha­grid was late for the feast —”

“You’ve seen Snape? How come?” said Ron be­tween fren­zied mouth­fuls of gateau.

“Bumped in­to him,” said Har­ry eva­sive­ly.

“Ha­grid was on­ly a few min­utes late,” said Hermione. “Look, he’s wav­ing at you, Har­ry.”

Har­ry looked up at the staff ta­ble and grinned at Ha­grid, who was in­deed wav­ing at him. Ha­grid had nev­er quite man­aged to com­port him­self with the dig­ni­ty of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Head of Gryffind­or House, the top of whose head came up to some­where be­tween Ha­grid’s el­bow and shoul­der as they were sit­ting side by side, and who was look­ing dis­ap­prov­ing­ly at this en­thu­si­as­tic greet­ing. Har­ry was sur­prised to see the Div­ina­tion teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, sit­ting on Ha­grid’s oth­er side; she rarely left her tow­er room, and he had nev­er seen her at the startofterm feast be­fore. She looked as odd as ev­er, glit­ter­ing with beads and trail­ing shawls, her eyes mag­ni­fied to enor­mous size by her spec­ta­cles. Hav­ing al­ways con­sid­ered her a bit of a fraud, Har­ry had been shocked to dis­cov­er at the end of the pre­vi­ous term that it had been she who had made the pre­dic­tion that caused Lord Volde­mort to kill Har­ry’s par­ents and at­tack Har­ry him­self. The knowl­edge made him even less ea­ger to find him­self in her com­pa­ny, thank­ful­ly, this year he would be drop­ping Div­ina­tion. Her great bea­con­like eyes swiveled in his di­rec­tion; he hasti­ly looked away to­ward the Slytherin ta­ble. Dra­co Mal­foy was mim­ing the shat­terering of a nose to rau­cous laugh­ter and ap­plause. Har­ry dropped his gaze to his trea­cle tart, his in­sides burn­ing again. What he would give to fight Mal­foy oneonone…

“So what did Pro­fes­sor Slughorn want?” Hermione asked.

“To know what re­al­ly hap­pened at the Min­istry.” said Har­ry.

“Him and ev­ery­one else here,” sniffed Hermione. “Peo­ple were in­ter­ro­gat­ing us about it on the train, weren’t they, Ron?”

“Yeah,” said Ron. “All want­ing to know if you re­al­ly are ‘the Cho­sen One’ —”

“There has been much talk on that very sub­ject even amongst the ghosts,” in­ter­rupt­ed Near­ly Head­less Nick, in­clin­ing his bare­ly con­nect­ed head to­ward Har­ry so that it wob­bled dan­ger­ous­ly on its ruff. “I am con­sid­ered some­thing of a Pot­ter au­thor­ity; it is wide­ly known that we are friend­ly. I have as­sured the spir­it com­mu­ni­ty that I will not pester you for in­for­ma­tion, how­ev­er. ‘Har­ry Pot­ter knows that he can con­fide in me with com­plete con­fi­dence,’ I told them. ‘I would rather die than be­tray his trust.’”

“That’s not say­ing much, see­ing as you’re al­ready dead,” Ron ob­served.

“Once again, you show all the sen­si­tiv­ity of a blunt axe,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick in af­front­ed tones, and he rose in­to the air and glid­ed back to­ward the far end of the Gryffind­or ta­ble just as Dum­ble­dore got to his feet at the staff ta­ble. The talk and laugh­ter echo­ing around the Hall died away al­most in­stant­ly.

“The very best of evenings to you!” he said, smil­ing broad­ly, his arms opened wide as though to em­brace the whole room.

“What hap­pened to his hand?” gasped Hermione.

She was not the on­ly one who had no­ticed. Dum­ble­dore’s right hand was as black­ened and dead­look­ing as it had been on the night he had come to fetch Har­ry from the Durs­leys. Whis­pers it the room; Dum­ble­dore, in­ter­pret­ing them cor­rect­ly, mere­ly smiled and shook his pur­ple­and­gold sleeve over his in­ju­ry.

“Noth­ing to wor­ry about,” he said air­ily. “Now … to our new stu­dents, wel­come, to our old stu­dents, wel­come back! An­oth­er year full of mag­ical ed­uca­tion awaits you …”

“His hand was like that when I saw him over the sum­mer,”

Har­ry whis­pered to Hermione. “I thought he’d have cured it by now, though … or Madam Pom­frey would’ve done.”

“It looks as if it’s died,” said Hermione, with a nau­se­at­ed ex­pres­sion. “But there are some in­ju­ries you can’t cure… old curs­es…and there are poi­sons with­out an­ti­dotes. . . .”

“…and Mr. Filch, our care­tak­er, has asked me to say that there is a blan­ket ban on any joke items bought at the shop called Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes.

“Those wish­ing to play for their House Quid­ditch teams should give their names to their Heads of House as usu­al. We are al­so look­ing for new Quid­ditch com­men­ta­tors, who should do like­wise.

“We are pleased to wel­come a new mem­ber of staff this year, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn”— Slughorn stood up, his bald head gleam­ing in the can­dle­light, his big waist­coat­ed bel­ly cast­ing the ta­ble in­to shad­ow — “is a for­mer col­league of mine who has agreed to re­sume his old post of Po­tions mas­ter.”

“Po­tions?”

“Po­tions?”

The word echoed all over the Hall as peo­ple won­dered wheel they had heard right.

“Po­tions?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er, turn­ing to stare Har­ry. “But you said —”

“Pro­fes­sor Snape, mean­while,” said Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing voice so that it car­ried over all the mut­ter­ing, “will be tak­ing the po­si­tion of De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er.”

“No!” said Har­ry, so loud­ly that many heads turned in his di­rec­tion. He did not care; he was star­ing up at the staff ta­ble, in­censed. How could Snape be giv­en the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job af­ter all this time? Hadn’t it been wide­ly known for years that Dum­ble­dore did not trust him to do it?

“But Har­ry, you said that Slughorn was go­ing to be teach­ing De­fense Against the Dark Arts!” said Hermione.

“I thought he was!” said Har­ry, rack­ing his brains to re­mem­ber when Dum­ble­dore had told him this, but now that he came to think of it, he was un­able to re­call Dum­ble­dore ev­er telling him what Slughorn would be teach­ing.

Snape, who was sit­ting on Dum­ble­dore’s right, did not stand up his men­tion of his name; he mere­ly raised a hand in lazy ac­knowl­edg­ment of the ap­plause from the Slytherin ta­ble, yet Har­ry was sure he could de­tect a look of tri­umph on the fea­tures he loathed so much.

“Well, there’s one good thing,” he said sav­age­ly. “Snape’ll be gone by the end of the year.”

“What do you mean?” asked Ron.

“That job’s jinxed. No ones last­ed more than a year… Quir­rell ac­tu­al­ly died do­ing it… Per­son­al­ly, I’m go­ing to keep my fin­gers crossed for an­oth­er death…”

“Har­ry!” said Hermione, shocked and re­proach­ful.

“He might just go back to teach­ing Po­tions at the end of the year,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “That Slughorn bloke might not want to stay longterm. Moody didn’t.”

“Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were not the on­ly ones who had been talk­ing; the whole Hall had erupt­ed in a buzz of con­ver­sa­tion at the news that Snape had fi­nal­ly achieved his heart’s de­sire. Seem­ing­ly obliv­ious to the sen­sa­tion­al na­ture of the news he had just im­part­ed, Dum­ble­dore said noth­ing more about staff ap­point­ments, but wait­ed a few sec­onds to en­sure that the si­lence was ab­so­lute be­fore con­tin­uing.

“Now, as ev­ery­body in this Hall knows, Lord Volde­mort and his fol­low­ers are once more at large and gain­ing in strength.”

The si­lence seemed to taut­en and strain as Dum­ble­dore spoke. Har­ry glanced at Mal­foy. Mal­foy was not look­ing at Dum­ble­dore, but mak­ing his fork hov­er in midair with his wand, as though he found the head­mas­ter’s words un­wor­thy of his at­ten­tion.

“I can­not em­pha­size strong­ly enough how dan­ger­ous the present sit­ua­tion is, and how much care each of us at Hog­warts must take to en­sure that we re­main safe. The cas­tle’s mag­ical for­ti­fi­ca­tions have been strength­ened over the sum­mer, we are pro­tect­ed in new and more pow­er­ful ways, but we must still guard scrupu­lous­ly against care­less­ness on the part of any stu­dent or mem­ber of staff. I urge you, there­fore, to abide by any se­cu­ri­ty re­stric­tions that you teach­ers might im­pose up­on you, how­ev­er irk­some you might find them — in par­tic­ular, the rule that you are not to be out of af­ter hours. I im­plore you, should you no­tice any­thing strange or sus­pi­cious with­in or out­side the cas­tle, to re­port it to a mem­ber of staff im­me­di­ate­ly. I trust you to con­duct your­selves, al­ways, with the ut­most re­gard for your own and oth­ers’ safe­ty.”

Dum­ble­dore’s blue eyes swept over the stu­dents be­fore he smiled once more.

“But now, your beds await, as warm and com­fort­able as you could pos­si­bly wish, and I know that your top pri­or­ity is to be well­rest­ed for your lessons to­mor­row. Let us there­fore say good night. Pip pip!”

With the usu­al deaf­en­ing scrap­ing noise, the bench­es moved back and the hun­dreds of stu­dents be­gan to file out of the Great Hall to­ward their dor­mi­to­ries. Har­ry, who was in no hur­ry at all to leave with the gaw­ping crowd, nor to get near enough to Mal­foy to al­low him to retell the sto­ry of the noses­tamp­ing, lagged be­hind, pre­tend­ing to retie the lace on his train­er, al­low­ing most of Gryffind­ors to draw ahead of him. Hermione had dart­ed ahead to ful­fill her pre­fect’s du­ty of shep­herd­ing the first years, but Ron re­mained with Har­ry.

“What re­al­ly hap­pened to your nose?” he asked, once they were at the very back of the throng press­ing out of the Hall, and out of earshot of any­one else.

Har­ry told him. It was a mark of the strength of their friend­ship that Ron did not laugh.

“I saw Mal­foy mim­ing some­thing to do with a nose,” he said dark­ly.

“Yeah, well, nev­er mind that,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Lis­ten to what he was say­ing be­fore he found out I was there…”

“Har­ry had ex­pect­ed Ron to be stunned by Mal­foys boasts. With what Har­ry con­sid­ered pure pig­head­ed­ness, how­ev­er, Ron was unim­pressed.

“Come on, Har­ry, he was just show­ing off for Parkin­son….

What kind of mis­sion would YouKnowWho have giv­en him?”

“How d’you know Volde­mort doesn’t need some­one at Hog­warts? It wouldn’t be the first —”

“I wish yeh’d stop sayin’ tha name, Har­ry,” said a re­proach­ful voice be­hind them. Har­ry looked over his shoul­der to see Hagtid shak­ing his head.

“Dum­ble­dore us­es that name,” said Har­ry stub­born­ly

“Yeah, well, tha’s Dum­ble­dore, in­nit?” said Ha­grid mys­te­ri­ous­ly.

“So how come yeh were late, Har­ry? I was wor­ried.”

“Got held up on the train,” said Har­ry. “Why were you late?”

“I was with Grawp,” said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. “Los’ track o’ the time. He’s got a new home up in the moun­tains now, Dum­ble­dore fixed it — nice big cave. He’s much hap­pi­er than he was in the for­est. We were havin’ a good chat.”

“Re­al­ly?” said Har­ry, tak­ing care not to catch Ron’s eye; the last time he had met Ha­grid’s half­broth­er, a vi­cious gi­ant with a tal­ent for rip­ping up trees by the roots, his vo­cab­ulary had com­prised five words, two of which he was un­able to pro­nounce prop­er­ly.

“Oh yeah, he’s re­al­ly come on,” said Ha­grid proud­ly. “Yeh’ll be amazed. I’m thinkin’ o’ train­in’ him up as me as­sis­tant.”

Ron snort­ed loud­ly, but man­aged to pass it off as a vi­olent sneeze. They were now stand­ing be­side the oak front doors.

“Any­way, I’ll see yeh to­mor­row, firs’ les­son’s straight af­ter lunch. Come ear­ly an’ yeh can say hel­lo ter Buck — I mean, With­er­wings!”

Rais­ing an arm in cheery farewell, he head­ed out of the doors in­to the dark­ness.

Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er. Har­ry could tell that Ron was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing the same sink­ing feel­ing as him­self.

“You’re not tak­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, are you?”

Ron shook his head. “And you’re not ei­ther, are you?”

Har­ry shook his head too.

“And Hermione,” said Ron, “she’s not, is she?”

Har­ry shook his head again. Ex­act­ly what Ha­grid would say when he re­al­ized his three fa­vorite stu­dents had giv­en up his sub­ject, he did not like to think.





