CHAPTER ONE


Owl Post



Har­ry Pot­ter was a high­ly un­usu­al boy in many ways. For one thing, he hat­ed the sum­mer hol­idays more than any oth­er time of year. For an­oth­er, he re­al­ly want­ed to do his home­work, but was forced to do it in se­cret, in the dead of night. And he al­so hap­pened to be a wiz­ard.

It was near­ly mid­night, and he was ly­ing on his front in bed, the blan­kets drawn right over his head like a tent, a torch in one hand and a large leather-​bound book (A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, by Adal­bert Waf­fling) propped open against the pil­low. Har­ry moved the tip of his ea­gle-​feath­er quill down the page, frown­ing as he looked for some­thing that would help him write his es­say, ‘Witch-​Burn­ing in the Four­teenth Cen­tu­ry Was Com­plete­ly Point­less – dis­cuss’.

The quill paused at the top of a like­ly-​look­ing para­graph. Har­ry pushed his round glass­es up his nose, moved his torch clos­er to the book and read:



Non-​mag­ic peo­ple (more com­mon­ly known as Mug­gles) were par­tic­ular­ly afraid of mag­ic in me­dieval times, but not very good at recog­nis­ing it. On the rare oc­ca­sion that they did catch a re­al witch or wiz­ard, burn­ing had no ef­fect what­so­ev­er. The witch or wiz­ard would per­form a ba­sic Flame-​Freez­ing Charm and then pre­tend to shriek with pain while en­joy­ing a gen­tle, tick­ling sen­sa­tion. In­deed, Wen­delin the Weird en­joyed be­ing burnt so much that she al­lowed her­self to be caught no few­er than forty-​sev­en times in var­ious dis­guis­es.



Har­ry put his quill be­tween his teeth and reached un­der­neath his pil­low for his ink bot­tle and a roll of parch­ment. Slow­ly and very care­ful­ly he un­screwed the ink bot­tle, dipped his quill in­to it and be­gan to write, paus­ing ev­ery now and then to lis­ten, be­cause if any of the Durs­leys heard the scratch­ing of his quill on their way to the bath­room, he’d prob­ably find him­self locked in the cup­board un­der the stairs for the rest of the sum­mer.

The Durs­ley fam­ily of num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, was the rea­son that Har­ry nev­er en­joyed his sum­mer hol­idays. Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia and their son, Dud­ley, were Har­ry’s on­ly liv­ing rel­atives. They were Mug­gles, and they had a very me­dieval at­ti­tude to­wards mag­ic. Har­ry’s dead par­ents, who had been a witch and wiz­ard them­selves, were nev­er men­tioned un­der the Durs­leys’ roof. For years, Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non had hoped that if they kept Har­ry as down­trod­den as pos­si­ble, they would be able to squash the mag­ic out of him. To their fury, they had been un­suc­cess­ful, and now lived in ter­ror of any­one find­ing out that Har­ry had spent most of the last two years at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry. The most the Durs­leys could do these days was to lock away Har­ry’s spell­books, wand, caul­dron and broom­stick at the start of the sum­mer hol­idays, and for­bid him to talk to the neigh­bours.

This sep­ara­tion from his spell­books had been a re­al prob­lem for Har­ry, be­cause his teach­ers at Hog­warts had giv­en him a lot of hol­iday work. One of the es­says, a par­tic­ular­ly nasty one about Shrink­ing Po­tions, was for Har­ry’s least favourite teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Snape, who would be de­light­ed to have an ex­cuse to give Har­ry de­ten­tion for a month. Har­ry had there­fore seized his chance in the first week of the hol­idays. Whilst Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley had gone out in­to the front gar­den to ad­mire Un­cle Ver­non’s new com­pa­ny car (in very loud voic­es, so that the rest of the street would no­tice it too), Har­ry had crept down­stairs, picked the lock on the cup­board un­der the stairs, grabbed some of his books and hid­den them in his bed­room. As long as he didn’t leave spots of ink on the sheets, the Durs­leys need nev­er know that he was study­ing mag­ic by night.

Har­ry was keen to avoid trou­ble with his aunt and un­cle at the mo­ment, as they were al­ready in a bad mood with him, all be­cause he’d re­ceived a tele­phone call from a fel­low wiz­ard one week in­to the school hol­idays.

Ron Weasley, who was one of Har­ry’s best friends at Hog­warts, came from a whole fam­ily of wiz­ards. This meant that he knew a lot of things Har­ry didn’t, but had nev­er used a tele­phone be­fore. Most un­luck­ily, it had been Un­cle Ver­non who had an­swered the call.

‘Ver­non Durs­ley speak­ing.’

Har­ry, who hap­pened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard Ron’s voice an­swer.

‘HEL­LO? HEL­LO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I – WANT – TO – TALK – TO – HAR­RY – POT­TER!’

Ron was yelling so loud­ly that Un­cle Ver­non jumped and held the re­ceiv­er a foot away from his ear, star­ing at it with an ex­pres­sion of min­gled fury and alarm.

‘WHO IS THIS?’ he roared in the di­rec­tion of the mouth­piece. ‘WHO ARE YOU?’

‘RON – WEASLEY!’ Ron bel­lowed back, as though he and Un­cle Ver­non were speak­ing from op­po­site ends of a foot­ball pitch. ‘I’M – A – FRIEND – OF – HAR­RY’S – FROM – SCHOOL –’

Un­cle Ver­non’s small eyes swiv­elled around to Har­ry, who was root­ed to the spot.

‘THERE IS NO HAR­RY POT­TER HERE!’ he roared, now hold­ing the re­ceiv­er at arm’s length, as though fright­ened it might ex­plode. ‘I DON’T KNOW WHAT SCHOOL YOU’RE TALK­ING ABOUT! NEV­ER CON­TACT ME AGAIN! DON’T YOU COME NEAR MY FAM­ILY!’

And he threw the re­ceiv­er back on­to the tele­phone as if drop­ping a poi­sonous spi­der.

The row that had fol­lowed had been one of the worst ev­er.

‘HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUM­BER TO PEO­PLE LIKE – PEO­PLE LIKE YOU!’ Un­cle Ver­non had roared, spray­ing Har­ry with spit.

Ron ob­vi­ous­ly re­alised that he’d got Har­ry in­to trou­ble, be­cause he hadn’t called again. Har­ry’s oth­er best friend from Hog­warts, Hermione Granger, hadn’t been in touch ei­ther. Har­ry sus­pect­ed that Ron had warned Hermione not to call, which was a pity, be­cause Hermione, the clever­est witch in Har­ry’s year, had Mug­gle par­ents, knew per­fect­ly well how to use a tele­phone, and would prob­ably have had enough sense not to say that she went to Hog­warts.

So Har­ry had had no word from any of his wiz­ard­ing friends for five long weeks, and this sum­mer was turn­ing out to be al­most as bad as the last one. There was just one, very small im­prove­ment: af­ter swear­ing that he wouldn’t use her to send let­ters to any of his friends, Har­ry had been al­lowed to let his owl, Hed­wig, out at night. Un­cle Ver­non had giv­en in be­cause of the rack­et Hed­wig made if she was locked in her cage all the time.

Har­ry fin­ished writ­ing about Wen­delin the Weird and paused to lis­ten again. The si­lence in the dark house was bro­ken on­ly by the dis­tant, grunt­ing snores of his enor­mous cousin, Dud­ley. It must be very late. Har­ry’s eyes were itch­ing with tired­ness. Per­haps he’d fin­ish this es­say to­mor­row night …

He re­placed the top of the ink bot­tle, pulled an old pil­low­case from un­der his bed, put the torch, A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, his es­say, quill and ink in­side it, got out of bed and hid the lot un­der a loose floor­board un­der his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the time on the lu­mi­nous alarm clock on his bed­side ta­ble.

It was one o’clock in the morn­ing. Har­ry’s stom­ach gave a fun­ny jolt. He had been thir­teen years old, with­out re­al­is­ing it, for a whole hour.

Yet an­oth­er un­usu­al thing about Har­ry was how lit­tle he looked for­ward to his birth­days. He had nev­er re­ceived a birth­day card in his life. The Durs­leys had com­plete­ly ig­nored his last two birth­days, and he had no rea­son to sup­pose they would re­mem­ber this one.

Har­ry walked across the dark room, past Hed­wig’s large, emp­ty cage, to the open win­dow. He leaned on the sill, the cool night air pleas­ant on his face af­ter a long time un­der the blan­kets. Hed­wig had been ab­sent for two nights now. Har­ry wasn’t wor­ried about her – she’d been gone this long be­fore – but he hoped she’d be back soon. She was the on­ly liv­ing crea­ture in this house who didn’t flinch at the sight of him.

Har­ry, though still rather small and skin­ny for his age, had grown a few inch­es over the last year. His jet-​black hair, how­ev­er, was just as it al­ways had been: stub­born­ly un­tidy, what­ev­er he did to it. The eyes be­hind his glass­es were bright green, and on his fore­head, clear­ly vis­ible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of light­ning.

Of all the un­usu­al things about Har­ry, this scar was the most ex­traor­di­nary of all. It was not, as the Durs­leys had pre­tend­ed for ten years, a sou­venir of the car crash that had killed Har­ry’s par­ents, be­cause Lily and James Pot­ter had not died in a car crash. They had been mur­dered, mur­dered by the most feared Dark wiz­ard for a hun­dred years, Lord Volde­mort. Har­ry had es­caped from the same at­tack with noth­ing more than a scar on his fore­head, when Volde­mort’s curse, in­stead of killing him, had re­bound­ed up­on its orig­ina­tor. Bare­ly alive, Volde­mort had fled …

But Har­ry had come face to face with him since at Hog­warts. Re­mem­ber­ing their last meet­ing as he stood at the dark win­dow, Har­ry had to ad­mit he was lucky even to have reached his thir­teenth birth­day.

He scanned the star­ry sky for a sign of Hed­wig, per­haps soar­ing back to him with a dead mouse dan­gling from her beak, ex­pect­ing praise. Gaz­ing ab­sent­ly over the rooftops, it was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry re­alised what he was see­ing.

Sil­hou­et­ted against the gold­en moon, and grow­ing larg­er ev­ery mo­ment, was a large, strange­ly lop-​sid­ed crea­ture, and it was flap­ping in Har­ry’s di­rec­tion. He stood quite still, watch­ing it sink low­er and low­er. For a split sec­ond, he hes­itat­ed, his hand on the win­dow-​latch, won­der­ing whether to slam it shut, but then the bizarre crea­ture soared over one of the street­lamps of Priv­et Drive, and Har­ry, re­al­is­ing what it was, leapt aside.

Through the win­dow soared three owls, two of them hold­ing up the third, which ap­peared to be un­con­scious. They land­ed with a soft flump on Har­ry’s bed, and the mid­dle owl, which was large and grey, keeled right over and lay mo­tion­less. There was a large pack­age tied to its legs.

Har­ry recog­nised the un­con­scious owl at once – his name was Er­rol, and he be­longed to the Weasley fam­ily. Har­ry dashed to the bed at once, un­tied the cords around Er­rol’s legs, took off the par­cel and then car­ried Er­rol to Hed­wig’s cage. Er­rol opened one bleary eye, gave a fee­ble hoot of thanks, and be­gan to gulp some wa­ter.

Har­ry turned back to the re­main­ing owls. One of them, the large snowy fe­male, was his own Hed­wig. She, too, was car­ry­ing a par­cel, and looked ex­treme­ly pleased with her­self. She gave Har­ry an af­fec­tion­ate nip with her beak as he re­moved her bur­den, then flew across the room to join Er­rol.

Har­ry didn’t recog­nise the third owl, a hand­some tawny one, but he knew at once where it had come from, be­cause in ad­di­tion to a third par­cel, it was car­ry­ing a let­ter bear­ing the Hog­warts crest. When Har­ry re­lieved this owl of its post it ruf­fled its feath­ers im­por­tant­ly, stretched its wings and took off through the win­dow in­to the night.

Har­ry sat down on his bed, grabbed Er­rol’s pack­age, ripped off the brown pa­per and dis­cov­ered a present wrapped in gold, and his first ev­er birth­day card. Fin­gers trem­bling slight­ly, he opened the en­ve­lope. Two pieces of pa­per fell out – a let­ter and a news­pa­per cut­ting.

The cut­ting had clear­ly come out of the wiz­ard­ing news­pa­per, the Dai­ly Prophet, be­cause the peo­ple in the black and white pic­ture were mov­ing. Har­ry picked up the cut­ting, smoothed it out and read:



MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC EM­PLOY­EE SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Mis­use of Mug­gle Arte­facts Of­fice at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, has won the an­nu­al Dai­ly Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw.

A de­light­ed Mr Weasley told the Dai­ly Prophet, ‘We will be spend­ing the gold on a sum­mer hol­iday in Egypt, where our el­dest son, Bill, works as a curse break­er for Gringotts Wiz­ard­ing Bank.’

The Weasley fam­ily will be spend­ing a month in Egypt, re­turn­ing for the start of the new school year at Hog­warts, which five of the Weasley chil­dren cur­rent­ly at­tend.



Har­ry scanned the mov­ing pho­to­graph, and a grin spread across his face as he saw all nine of the Weasleys wav­ing fu­ri­ous­ly at him, stand­ing in front of a large pyra­mid. Plump lit­tle Mrs Weasley, tall, bald­ing Mr Weasley, six sons and one daugh­ter, all (though the black and white pic­ture didn’t show it) with flam­ing red hair. Right in the mid­dle of the pic­ture was Ron, tall and gan­gling, with his pet rat Scab­bers on his shoul­der and his arm around his lit­tle sis­ter, Gin­ny.

Har­ry couldn’t think of any­one who de­served to win a large pile of gold more than the Weasleys, who were very nice and ex­treme­ly poor. He picked up Ron’s let­ter and un­fold­ed it.



Dear Har­ry,

Hap­py birth­day!

Look, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry about that tele­phone call. I hope the Mug­gles didn’t give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reck­ons I shouldn’t have shout­ed.

It’s bril­liant here in Egypt. Bill’s tak­en us round all the tombs and you wouldn’t be­lieve the curs­es those old Egyp­tian wiz­ards put on them. Mum wouldn’t let Gin­ny come in the last one. There were all these mu­tant skele­tons in there, of Mug­gles who’d bro­ken in and grown ex­tra heads and stuff.

I couldn’t be­lieve it when Dad won the Dai­ly Prophet Draw. Sev­en hun­dred galleons! Most of it’s gone on this hol­iday, but they’re go­ing to buy me a new wand for next year.



Har­ry re­mem­bered on­ly too well the oc­ca­sion when Ron’s old wand had snapped. It had hap­pened when the car the two of them had been fly­ing to Hog­warts had crashed in­to a tree in the school grounds.



We’ll be back about a week be­fore term starts and we’ll be go­ing up to Lon­don to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meet­ing you there?

Don’t let the Mug­gles get you down!

Try and come to Lon­don,

Ron



PS: Per­cy’s Head Boy. He got the let­ter last week.



Har­ry glanced back at the pho­to­graph. Per­cy, who was in his sev­enth and fi­nal year at Hog­warts, was look­ing par­tic­ular­ly smug. He had pinned his Head Boy badge to the fez perched jaun­ti­ly on top of his neat hair, his horn-​rimmed glass­es flash­ing in the Egyp­tian sun.

Har­ry now turned to his present and un­wrapped it. In­side was what looked like a minia­ture glass spin­ning top. There was an­oth­er note from Ron be­neath it.



Har­ry – this is a Pock­et Sneako­scope. If there’s some­one un­trust­wor­thy around, it’s sup­posed to light up and spin. Bill says it’s rub­bish sold for wiz­ard tourists and isn’t re­li­able, be­cause it kept light­ing up at din­ner last night. But he didn’t re­alise Fred and George had put bee­tles in his soup.

Bye – Ron



Har­ry put the Pock­et Sneako­scope on his bed­side ta­ble, where it stood quite still, bal­anced on its point, re­flect­ing the lu­mi­nous hands of his clock. He looked at it hap­pi­ly for a few sec­onds, then picked up the par­cel Hed­wig had brought.

In­side this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card and a let­ter, this time from Hermione.



Dear Har­ry,

Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your Un­cle Ver­non. I do hope you’re all right.

I’m on hol­iday in France at the mo­ment and I didn’t know how I was go­ing to send this to you – what if they’d opened it at Cus­toms? – but then Hed­wig turned up! I think she want­ed to make sure you got some­thing for your birth­day for a change. I bought your present by owl-​or­der; there was an ad­ver­tise­ment in the Dai­ly Prophet (I’ve been get­ting it de­liv­ered, it’s so good to keep up with what’s go­ing on in the wiz­ard­ing world). Did you see that pic­ture of Ron and his fam­ily a week ago? I bet he’s learn­ing loads, I’m re­al­ly jeal­ous – the an­cient Egyp­tian wiz­ards were fas­ci­nat­ing.

There’s some in­ter­est­ing lo­cal his­to­ry of witchcraft here, too. I’ve re-​writ­ten my whole His­to­ry of Mag­ic es­say to in­clude some of the things I’ve found out. I hope it’s not too long, it’s two rolls of parch­ment more than Pro­fes­sor Binns asked for.

Ron says he’s go­ing to be in Lon­don in the last week of the hol­idays. Can you make it? Will your aunt and un­cle let you come? I re­al­ly hope you can. If not, I’ll see you on the Hog­warts Ex­press on Septem­ber the first!

Love from

Hermione



PS. Ron says Per­cy’s Head Boy. I’ll bet Per­cy’s re­al­ly pleased. Ron doesn’t seem too hap­py about it.



Har­ry laughed again as he put Hermione’s let­ter aside and picked up her present. It was very heavy. Know­ing Hermione, he was sure it would be a large book full of very dif­fi­cult spells – but it wasn’t. His heart gave a huge bound as he ripped back the pa­per and saw a sleek black leather case with sil­ver words stamped across it: Broom­stick Ser­vic­ing Kit.

‘Wow, Hermione!’ Har­ry whis­pered, un­zip­ping the case to look in­side.

There was a large jar of Fleet­wood’s High-​Fin­ish Han­dle Pol­ish, a pair of gleam­ing sil­ver Tail-​Twig Clip­pers, a tiny brass com­pass to clip on­to your broom for long jour­neys, and a Hand­book of Do-​it-​Your­self Broom­care.

Apart from his friends, the thing that Har­ry missed most about Hog­warts was Quid­ditch, the most pop­ular sport in the mag­ical world – high­ly dan­ger­ous, very ex­cit­ing and played on broom­sticks. Har­ry hap­pened to be a very good Quid­ditch play­er; he had been the youngest per­son in a cen­tu­ry to be picked for one of the Hog­warts house teams. One of Har­ry’s most prized pos­ses­sions was his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand rac­ing broom.

Har­ry put the leather case aside and picked up his last par­cel. He recog­nised the un­tidy scrawl on the brown pa­per at once: this was from Ha­grid, the Hog­warts game­keep­er. He tore off the top lay­er of pa­per and glimpsed some­thing green and leath­ery, but be­fore he could un­wrap it prop­er­ly, the par­cel gave a strange quiver, and what­ev­er was in­side it snapped loud­ly – as though it had jaws.

Har­ry froze. He knew that Ha­grid would nev­er send him any­thing dan­ger­ous on pur­pose, but then, Ha­grid didn’t have a nor­mal per­son’s view of what was dan­ger­ous. Ha­grid had been known to be­friend gi­ant spi­ders, buy vi­cious, three-​head­ed dogs from men in pubs and sneak il­le­gal drag­on eggs in­to his cab­in.

Har­ry poked the par­cel ner­vous­ly. It snapped loud­ly again. Har­ry reached for the lamp on his bed­side ta­ble, gripped it firm­ly in one hand and raised it over his head, ready to strike. Then he seized the rest of the wrap­ping pa­per in his oth­er hand and pulled.

And out fell – a book. Har­ry just had time to reg­is­ter its hand­some green cov­er, em­bla­zoned with the gold­en ti­tle, The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters, be­fore it flipped on­to its edge and scut­tled side­ways along the bed like some weird crab.

‘Uh oh,’ Har­ry mut­tered.

The book top­pled off the bed with a loud clunk and shuf­fled rapid­ly across the room. Har­ry fol­lowed it stealthi­ly. The book was hid­ing in the dark space un­der his desk. Pray­ing that the Durs­leys were still fast asleep, Har­ry got down on his hands and knees and reached to­wards it.

‘Ouch!’

The book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped past him, still scut­tling on its cov­ers. Har­ry scram­bled around, threw him­self for­ward and man­aged to flat­ten it. Un­cle Ver­non gave a loud, sleepy grunt in the room next door.

Hed­wig and Er­rol watched in­ter­est­ed­ly as Har­ry clamped the strug­gling book tight­ly in his arms, hur­ried to his chest of draw­ers and pulled out a belt, which he buck­led tight­ly around it. The Mon­ster Book shud­dered an­gri­ly, but could no longer flap and snap, so Har­ry threw it down on the bed and reached for Ha­grid’s card.



Dear Har­ry,

Hap­py Birth­day!

Think you might find this use­ful for next year. Won’t say no more here. Tell you when I see you.

Hope the Mug­gles are treat­ing you right.

All the best,

Ha­grid



It struck Har­ry as omi­nous that Ha­grid thought a bit­ing book would come in use­ful, but he put up Ha­grid’s card next to Ron and Hermione’s, grin­ning more broad­ly than ev­er. Now there was on­ly the let­ter from Hog­warts left.

Notic­ing that it was rather thick­er than usu­al, Har­ry slit open the en­ve­lope, pulled out the first page of parch­ment with­in and read:



Dear Mr Pot­ter,

Please note that the new school year will be­gin on Septem­ber the first. The Hog­warts Ex­press will leave from King’s Cross Sta­tion, plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters, at eleven o’clock.

Third-​years are per­mit­ted to vis­it the vil­lage of Hogsmeade at cer­tain week­ends. Please give the en­closed per­mis­sion form to your par­ent or guardian to sign.

A list of books for next year is en­closed.

Yours sin­cere­ly,

Pro­fes­sor M. McG­ona­gall

Deputy Head­mistress



Har­ry pulled out the Hogsmeade per­mis­sion form and looked at it, no longer grin­ning. It would be won­der­ful to vis­it Hogsmeade at week­ends; he knew it was an en­tire­ly wiz­ard­ing vil­lage, and he had nev­er set foot there. But how on earth was he go­ing to per­suade Un­cle Ver­non or Aunt Petu­nia to sign the form?

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two o’clock in the morn­ing.

De­cid­ing that he’d wor­ry about the Hogsmeade form when he woke up, Har­ry got back in­to bed and reached up to cross off an­oth­er day on the chart he’d made for him­self, count­ing down the days left un­til his re­turn to Hog­warts. Then he took off his glass­es and lay down, eyes open, fac­ing his three birth­day cards.

Ex­treme­ly un­usu­al though he was, at that mo­ment Har­ry Pot­ter felt just like ev­ery­one else: glad, for the first time in his life, that it was his birth­day.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TWO


Aunt Marge’s Big Mis­take



Har­ry went down to break­fast next morn­ing to find the three Durs­leys al­ready sit­ting around the kitchen ta­ble. They were watch­ing a brand-​new tele­vi­sion, a wel­come-​home-​for-​the-​sum­mer present for Dud­ley, who had been com­plain­ing loud­ly about the long walk be­tween the fridge and the tele­vi­sion in the liv­ing room. Dud­ley had spent most of the sum­mer in the kitchen, his pig­gy lit­tle eyes fixed on the screen and his five chins wob­bling as he ate con­tin­ual­ly.

Har­ry sat down be­tween Dud­ley and Un­cle Ver­non, a large, beefy man with very lit­tle neck and a lot of mous­tache. Far from wish­ing Har­ry a hap­py birth­day, none of the Durs­leys gave any sign that they had no­ticed Har­ry en­ter the room, but Har­ry was far too used to this to care. He helped him­self to a piece of toast and then looked up at the news­read­er on the tele­vi­sion, who was halfway through a re­port on an es­caped con­vict.

‘… the pub­lic is warned that Black is armed and ex­treme­ly dan­ger­ous. A spe­cial hot­line has been set up, and any sight­ing of Black should be re­port­ed im­me­di­ate­ly.’

‘No need to tell us he’s no good,’ snort­ed Un­cle Ver­non, star­ing over the top of his news­pa­per at the pris­on­er. ‘Look at the state of him, the filthy layabout! Look at his hair!’

He shot a nasty look side­ways at Har­ry, whose un­tidy hair had al­ways been a source of great an­noy­ance to Un­cle Ver­non. Com­pared to the man on the tele­vi­sion, how­ev­er, whose gaunt face was sur­round­ed by a mat­ted, el­bow-​length tan­gle, Har­ry felt very well groomed in­deed.

The news­read­er had reap­peared.

‘The Min­istry of Agri­cul­ture and Fish­eries will an­nounce to­day –’

‘Hang on!’ barked Un­cle Ver­non, star­ing fu­ri­ous­ly at the news­read­er. ‘You didn’t tell us where that ma­ni­ac’s es­caped from! What use is that? Lu­natic could be com­ing up the street right now!’

Aunt Petu­nia, who was bony and horse-​faced, whipped around and peered in­tent­ly out of the kitchen win­dow. Har­ry knew Aunt Petu­nia would sim­ply love to be the one to call the hot­line num­ber. She was the nosiest wom­an in the world and spent most of her life spy­ing on her bor­ing, law-​abid­ing neigh­bours.

‘When will they learn,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, pound­ing the ta­ble with his large pur­ple fist, ‘that hang­ing’s the on­ly way to deal with these peo­ple?’

‘Very true,’ said Aunt Petu­nia, who was still squint­ing in­to next door’s run­ner-​beans.

Un­cle Ver­non drained his teacup, glanced at his watch and added, ‘I’d bet­ter be off in a minute, Petu­nia, Marge’s train gets in at ten.’

Har­ry, whose thoughts had been up­stairs with the Broom­stick Ser­vic­ing Kit, was brought back to earth with an un­pleas­ant bump.

‘Aunt Marge?’ he blurt­ed out. ‘Sh-​she’s not com­ing here, is she?’

Aunt Marge was Un­cle Ver­non’s sis­ter. Even though she was not a blood rel­ative of Har­ry’s (whose moth­er had been Aunt Petu­nia’s sis­ter), he had been forced to call her ‘Aunt’ all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the coun­try, in a house with a large gar­den, where she bred bull­dogs. She didn’t of­ten stay in Priv­et Drive, be­cause she couldn’t bear to leave her pre­cious dogs, but each of her vis­its stood out hor­ri­bly vivid­ly in Har­ry’s mind.

At Dud­ley’s fifth birth­day par­ty, Aunt Marge had whacked Har­ry around the shins with her walk­ing stick to stop him beat­ing Dud­ley at mu­si­cal stat­ues. A few years lat­er, she had turned up at Christ­mas with a com­put­erised robot for Dud­ley and a box of dog bis­cuits for Har­ry. On her last vis­it, the year be­fore Har­ry had start­ed at Hog­warts, Har­ry had ac­ci­den­tal­ly trod­den on the paw of her favourite dog. Rip­per had chased Har­ry out in­to the gar­den and up a tree, and Aunt Marge had re­fused to call him off un­til past mid­night. The mem­ory of this in­ci­dent still brought tears of laugh­ter to Dud­ley’s eyes.

‘Marge’ll be here for a week,’ Un­cle Ver­non snarled, ‘and while we’re on the sub­ject,’ he point­ed a fat fin­ger threat­en­ing­ly at Har­ry, ‘we need to get a few things straight be­fore I go and col­lect her.’

Dud­ley smirked and with­drew his gaze from the tele­vi­sion. Watch­ing Har­ry be­ing bul­lied by Un­cle Ver­non was Dud­ley’s favourite form of en­ter­tain­ment.

‘First­ly,’ growled Un­cle Ver­non, ‘you’ll keep a civ­il tongue in your head when you’re talk­ing to Marge.’

‘All right,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly, ‘if she does when she’s talk­ing to me.’

‘Sec­ond­ly,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, act­ing as though he had not heard Har­ry’s re­ply, ‘as Marge doesn’t know any­thing about your ab­nor­mal­ity, I don’t want any – any fun­ny stuff while she’s here. You be­have your­self, got me?’

‘I will if she does,’ said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth.

‘And third­ly,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, his mean lit­tle eyes now slits in his great pur­ple face, ‘we’ve told Marge you at­tend St Bru­tus’s Se­cure Cen­tre for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys.’

‘What?’ Har­ry yelled.

‘And you’ll be stick­ing to that sto­ry, boy, or there’ll be trou­ble,’ spat Un­cle Ver­non.

Har­ry sat there, white-​faced and fu­ri­ous, star­ing at Un­cle Ver­non, hard­ly able to be­lieve it. Aunt Marge com­ing for a week-​long vis­it – it was the worst birth­day present the Durs­leys had ev­er giv­en him, in­clud­ing that pair of Un­cle Ver­non’s old socks.

‘Well, Petu­nia,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, get­ting heav­ily to his feet, ‘I’ll be off to the sta­tion, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dud­ders?’

‘No,’ said Dud­ley, whose at­ten­tion had re­turned to the tele­vi­sion now that Un­cle Ver­non had fin­ished threat­en­ing Har­ry.

‘Dud­dy’s got to make him­self smart for his aun­tie,’ said Aunt Petu­nia, smooth­ing Dud­ley’s thick blond hair. ‘Mum­my’s bought him a love­ly new bow-​tie.’

Un­cle Ver­non clapped Dud­ley on his porky shoul­der.

‘See you in a bit, then,’ he said, and he left the kitchen.

Har­ry, who had been sit­ting in a kind of hor­ri­fied trance, had a sud­den idea. Aban­don­ing his toast, he got quick­ly to his feet and fol­lowed Un­cle Ver­non to the front door.

Un­cle Ver­non was pulling on his car coat.

‘I’m not tak­ing you,’ he snarled, as he turned to see Har­ry watch­ing him. ‘Like I want­ed to come,’ said Har­ry cold­ly. ‘I want to ask you some­thing.’ Un­cle Ver­non eyed him sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘Third years at Hog – at my school are al­lowed to vis­it the vil­lage some­times,’ said Har­ry.

‘So?’ snapped Un­cle Ver­non, tak­ing his car keys from a hook next to the door.

‘I need you to sign the per­mis­sion form,’ said Har­ry in a rush.

‘And why should I do that?’ sneered Un­cle Ver­non.

‘Well,’ said Har­ry, choos­ing his words care­ful­ly, ‘it’ll be hard work, pre­tend­ing to Aunt Marge I go to that St What­sits …’

‘St Bru­tus’s Se­cure Cen­tre for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys!’ bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non, and Har­ry was pleased to hear a def­inite note of pan­ic in Un­cle Ver­non’s voice.

‘Ex­act­ly,’ said Har­ry, look­ing calm­ly up in­to Un­cle Ver­non’s large, pur­ple face. ‘It’s a lot to re­mem­ber. I’ll have to make it sound con­vinc­ing, won’t I? What if I ac­ci­den­tal­ly let some­thing slip?’

‘You’ll get the stuff­ing knocked out of you, won’t you?’ roared Un­cle Ver­non, ad­vanc­ing on Har­ry with his fist raised. But Har­ry stood his ground.

‘Knock­ing the stuff­ing out of me won’t make Aunt Marge for­get what I could tell her,’ he said grim­ly.

Un­cle Ver­non stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ug­ly puce.

‘But if you sign my per­mis­sion form,’ Har­ry went on quick­ly, ‘I swear I’ll re­mem­ber where I’m sup­posed to go to school, and I’ll act like a Mug – like I’m nor­mal and ev­ery­thing.’

Har­ry could tell that Un­cle Ver­non was think­ing it over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was throb­bing in his tem­ple.

‘Right,’ he snapped fi­nal­ly. ‘I shall mon­itor your be­haviour care­ful­ly dur­ing Marge’s vis­it. If, at the end of it, you’ve toed the line and kept to the sto­ry, I’ll sign your rud­dy form.’

He wheeled around, pulled open the front door and slammed it so hard that one of the lit­tle panes of glass at the top fell out.

Har­ry didn’t re­turn to the kitchen. He went back up­stairs to his bed­room. If he was go­ing to act like a re­al Mug­gle, he’d bet­ter start now. Slow­ly and sad­ly he gath­ered up all his presents and his birth­day cards and hid them un­der the loose floor­board with his home­work. Then he went to Hed­wig’s cage. Er­rol seemed to have re­cov­ered; he and Hed­wig were both asleep, heads un­der their wings. Har­ry sighed, then poked them both awake.

‘Hed­wig,’ he said gloomi­ly, ‘you’re go­ing to have to clear off for a week. Go with Er­rol, Ron’ll look af­ter you. I’ll write him a note, ex­plain­ing. And don’t look at me like that’ – Hed­wig’s large am­ber eyes were re­proach­ful, ‘it’s not my fault. It’s the on­ly way I’ll be al­lowed to vis­it Hogsmeade with Ron and Hermione.’

Ten min­utes lat­er, Er­rol and Hed­wig (who had a note to Ron bound to her leg) soared out of the win­dow and out of sight. Har­ry, now feel­ing thor­ough­ly mis­er­able, put the emp­ty cage away in­side the wardrobe.

But Har­ry didn’t have long to brood. In next to no time, Aunt Petu­nia was shriek­ing up the stairs for Har­ry to come down and get ready to wel­come their guest.

‘Do some­thing about your hair!’ Aunt Petu­nia snapped as he reached the hall.

Har­ry couldn’t see the point of try­ing to make his hair lie flat. Aunt Marge loved crit­icis­ing him, so the un­ti­di­er he looked, the hap­pi­er she would be.

All too soon, there was a crunch of grav­el out­side as Un­cle Ver­non’s car pulled back in­to the drive­way, then the clunk of the car doors, and foot­steps on the gar­den path.

‘Get the door!’ Aunt Petu­nia hissed at Har­ry.

A feel­ing of great gloom in his stom­ach, Har­ry pulled the door open.

On the thresh­old stood Aunt Marge. She was very like Un­cle Ver­non; large, beefy and pur­ple-​faced, she even had a mous­tache, though not as bushy as his. In one hand she held an enor­mous suit­case, and tucked un­der the oth­er was an old and evil-​tem­pered bull­dog.

‘Where’s my Dud­ders?’ roared Aunt Marge. ‘Where’s my neffy poo?’

Dud­ley came wad­dling down the hall, his blond hair plas­tered flat to his fat head, a bow-​tie just vis­ible un­der his many chins. Aunt Marge thrust the suit­case in­to Har­ry’s stom­ach, knock­ing the wind out of him, seized Dud­ley in a tight one-​armed hug and plant­ed a large kiss on his cheek.

Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well that Dud­ley on­ly put up with Aunt Marge’s hugs be­cause he was well paid for it, and sure enough, when they broke apart, Dud­ley had a crisp twen­ty-​pound note clutched in his fat fist.

‘Petu­nia!’ shout­ed Aunt Marge, strid­ing past Har­ry as though he was a hat-​stand. Aunt Marge and Aunt Petu­nia kissed, or rather, Aunt Marge bumped her large jaw against Aunt Petu­nia’s bony cheek­bone.

Un­cle Ver­non now came in, smil­ing jovial­ly as he shut the door.

‘Tea, Marge?’ he said. ‘And what will Rip­per take?’

‘Rip­per can have some tea out of my saucer,’ said Aunt Marge, as they all trooped in­to the kitchen, leav­ing Har­ry alone in the hall with the suit­case. But Har­ry wasn’t com­plain­ing; any ex­cuse not to be with Aunt Marge was fine by him, so he be­gan to heave the case up­stairs in­to the spare bed­room, tak­ing as long as he could.

By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Marge had been sup­plied with tea and fruit­cake and Rip­per was lap­ping nois­ily in the cor­ner. Har­ry saw Aunt Petu­nia wince slight­ly as specks of tea and drool flecked her clean floor. Aunt Petu­nia hat­ed an­imals.

‘Who’s look­ing af­ter the oth­er dogs, Marge?’ Un­cle Ver­non asked.

‘Oh, I’ve got Colonel Fub­ster man­ag­ing them,’ boomed Aunt Marge. ‘He’s re­tired now, good for him to have some­thing to do. But I couldn’t leave poor old Rip­per. He pines if he’s away from me.’

Rip­per be­gan to growl again as Har­ry sat down. This di­rect­ed Aunt Marge’s at­ten­tion to Har­ry for the first time.

‘So!’ she barked. ‘Still here, are you?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry.

‘Don’t you say ‘yes’ in that un­grate­ful tone,’ Aunt Marge growled. ‘It’s damn good of Ver­non and Petu­nia to keep you. Wouldn’t have done it my­self. You’d have gone straight to an or­phan­age if you’d been dumped on my doorstep.’

Har­ry was burst­ing to say that he’d rather live in an or­phan­age than with the Durs­leys, but the thought of the Hogsmeade form stopped him. He forced his face in­to a painful smile.

‘Don’t you smirk at me!’ boomed Aunt Marge. ‘I can see you haven’t im­proved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some man­ners in­to you.’ She took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mous­tache and said, ‘Where is it that you send him, again, Ver­non?’

‘St Bru­tus’s,’ said Un­cle Ver­non prompt­ly. ‘It’s a first-​rate in­sti­tu­tion for hope­less cas­es.’

‘I see,’ said Aunt Marge. ‘Do they use the cane at St Bru­tus’s, boy?’ she barked across the ta­ble.

‘Er –’

Un­cle Ver­non nod­ded curt­ly be­hind Aunt Marge’s back.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. Then, feel­ing he might as well do the thing prop­er­ly, he added, ‘All the time.’

‘Ex­cel­lent,’ said Aunt Marge. ‘I won’t have this nam­by-​pam­by, wishy-​washy non­sense about not hit­ting peo­ple who de­serve it. A good thrash­ing is what’s need­ed in nine­ty-​nine cas­es out of a hun­dred. Have you been beat­en of­ten?’

‘Oh, yeah,’ said Har­ry, ‘loads of times.’

Aunt Marge nar­rowed her eyes.

‘I still don’t like your tone, boy’ she said. ‘If you can speak of your beat­ings in that ca­su­al way, they clear­ly aren’t hit­ting you hard enough. Petu­nia, I’d write if I were you. Make it clear that you ap­prove the use of ex­treme force in this boy’s case.’

Per­haps Un­cle Ver­non was wor­ried that Har­ry might for­get their bar­gain; in any case, he changed the sub­ject abrupt­ly.

‘Heard the news this morn­ing, Marge? What about that es­caped pris­on­er, eh?’

*

As Aunt Marge start­ed to make her­self at home, Har­ry caught him­self think­ing al­most long­ing­ly of life at num­ber four with­out her. Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia usu­al­ly en­cour­aged Har­ry to stay out of their way, which Har­ry was on­ly too hap­py to do. Aunt Marge, on the oth­er hand, want­ed Har­ry un­der her eye at all times, so that she could boom out sug­ges­tions for his im­prove­ment. She de­light­ed in com­par­ing Har­ry with Dud­ley, and took huge plea­sure in buy­ing Dud­ley ex­pen­sive presents whilst glar­ing at Har­ry, as though dar­ing him to ask why he hadn’t got a present too. She al­so kept throw­ing out dark hints about what made Har­ry such an un­sat­is­fac­to­ry per­son.

‘You mustn’t blame your­self for the way the boy’s turned out, Ver­non,’ she said over lunch on the third day. ‘If there’s some­thing rot­ten on the in­side, there’s noth­ing any­one can do about it.’

Har­ry tried to con­cen­trate on his food, but his hands shook and his face was start­ing to burn with anger. Re­mem­ber the form, he told him­self. Think about Hogsmeade. Don’t say any­thing. Don’t rise –

Aunt Marge reached for her glass of wine.

‘It’s one of the ba­sic rules of breed­ing,’ she said. ‘You see it all the time with dogs. If there’s some­thing wrong with the bitch, there’ll be some­thing wrong with the pup –’

At that mo­ment, the wine glass Aunt Marge was hold­ing ex­plod­ed in her hand. Shards of glass flew in ev­ery di­rec­tion and Aunt Marge splut­tered and blinked, her great rud­dy face drip­ping.

‘Marge!’ squealed Aunt Petu­nia. ‘Marge, are you all right?’

‘Not to wor­ry,’ grunt­ed Aunt Marge, mop­ping her face with her nap­kin. ‘Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fub­ster’s the oth­er day. No need to fuss, Petu­nia, I have a very firm grip …’

But Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non were both look­ing at Har­ry sus­pi­cious­ly, so he de­cid­ed he’d bet­ter skip pud­ding and es­cape from the ta­ble as soon as he could.

Out­side in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breath­ing deeply. It had been a long time since he’d lost con­trol and made some­thing ex­plode. He couldn’t af­ford to let it hap­pen again. The Hogsmeade form wasn’t the on­ly thing at stake – if he car­ried on like that, he’d be in trou­ble with the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

Har­ry was still an un­der­age wiz­ard, and he was for­bid­den by wiz­ard law to do mag­ic out­side school. His record wasn’t ex­act­ly clean, ei­ther. On­ly last sum­mer he’d got an of­fi­cial warn­ing which had stat­ed quite clear­ly that if the Min­istry got wind of any more mag­ic in Priv­et Drive, Har­ry would face ex­pul­sion from Hog­warts.

He heard the Durs­leys leav­ing the ta­ble and hur­ried up­stairs out of the way.

*

Har­ry got through the next three days by forc­ing him­self to think about his Hand­book of Do-​it-​Your­self Broom­care when­ev­er Aunt Marge start­ed on him. This worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a glazed look, be­cause Aunt Marge start­ed voic­ing the opin­ion that he was men­tal­ly sub­nor­mal.

At last, at long last, the fi­nal evening of Marge’s stay ar­rived. Aunt Petu­nia cooked a fan­cy din­ner and Un­cle Ver­non un­corked sev­er­al bot­tles of wine. They got all the way through the soup and the salmon with­out a sin­gle men­tion of Har­ry’s faults; dur­ing the lemon meringue pie, Un­cle Ver­non bored them all with a long talk about Grun­nings, his drill-​mak­ing com­pa­ny; then Aunt Petu­nia made cof­fee and Un­cle Ver­non brought out a bot­tle of brandy.

‘Can I tempt you, Marge?’

Aunt Marge had al­ready had rather a lot of wine. Her huge face was very red.

‘Just a small one, then,’ she chuck­led. ‘A bit more than that … and a bit more … that’s the boy.’

Dud­ley was eat­ing his fourth slice of pie. Aunt Petu­nia was sip­ping cof­fee with her lit­tle fin­ger stick­ing out. Har­ry re­al­ly want­ed to dis­ap­pear in­to his bed­room, but he met Un­cle Ver­non’s an­gry lit­tle eyes and knew he would have to sit it out.

‘Aah,’ said Aunt Marge, smack­ing her lips and putting the emp­ty brandy glass back down. ‘Ex­cel­lent nosh, Petu­nia. It’s nor­mal­ly just a fry-​up for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look af­ter …’ She burped rich­ly and pat­ted her great tweed stom­ach. ‘Par­don me. But I do like to see a healthy-​sized boy,’ she went on, wink­ing at Dud­ley. ‘You’ll be a prop­er-​sized man, Dud­ders, like your fa­ther. Yes, I’ll have a spot more brandy, Ver­non …’

‘Now, this one here –’

She jerked her head at Har­ry, who felt his stom­ach clench. The Hand­book, he thought quick­ly.

‘This one’s got a mean, runty look about him. You get that with dogs. I had Colonel Fub­ster drown one last year. Rat­ty lit­tle thing it was. Weak. Un­der­bred.’

Har­ry was try­ing to re­mem­ber page twelve of his book: A Charm to Cure Re­luc­tant Re­versers.

‘It all comes down to blood, as I was say­ing the oth­er day. Bad blood will out. Now, I’m say­ing noth­ing against your fam­ily, Petu­nia’ – she pat­ted Aunt Petu­nia’s bony hand with her shov­el-​like one, ‘but your sis­ter was a bad egg. They turn up in the best fam­ilies. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here’s the re­sult right in front of us.’

Har­ry was star­ing at his plate, a fun­ny ring­ing in his ears. Grasp your broom firm­ly by the tail, he thought. But he couldn’t re­mem­ber what came next. Aunt Marge’s voice seemed to be bor­ing in­to him like one of Un­cle Ver­non’s drills.

‘This Pot­ter,’ said Aunt Marge loud­ly, seiz­ing the brandy bot­tle and splash­ing more in­to her glass and over the table­cloth, ‘you nev­er told me what he did?’

Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia were look­ing ex­treme­ly tense. Dud­ley had even looked up from his pie to gape at his par­ents.

‘He – didn’t work,’ said Un­cle Ver­non, with half a glance at Har­ry. ‘Un­em­ployed.’

‘As I ex­pect­ed!’ said Aunt Marge, tak­ing a huge swig of brandy and wip­ing her chin on her sleeve. ‘A no-​ac­count, good-​for-​noth­ing, lazy scrounger who –’

‘He was not,’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly. The ta­ble went very qui­et. Har­ry was shak­ing all over. He had nev­er felt so an­gry in his life.

‘MORE BRANDY!’ yelled Un­cle Ver­non, who had gone very white. He emp­tied the bot­tle in­to Aunt Marge’s glass. ‘You, boy,’ he snarled at Har­ry. ‘Go to bed, go on –’

‘No, Ver­non,’ hic­coughed Aunt Marge, hold­ing up a hand, her tiny blood­shot eyes fixed on Har­ry’s. ‘Go on, boy, go on. Proud of your par­ents, are you? They go and get them­selves killed in a car crash (drunk, I ex­pect) –’

‘They didn’t die in a car crash!’ said Har­ry, who found him­self on his feet.

‘They died in a car crash, you nasty lit­tle liar, and left you to be a bur­den on their de­cent, hard­work­ing rel­atives!’ screamed Aunt Marge, swelling with fury. ‘You are an in­so­lent, un­grate­ful lit­tle –’

But Aunt Marge sud­den­ly stopped speak­ing. For a mo­ment, it looked as though words had failed her. She seemed to be swelling with in­ex­press­ible anger – but the swelling didn’t stop. Her great red face start­ed to ex­pand, her tiny eyes bulged and her mouth stretched too tight­ly for speech. Next sec­ond, sev­er­al but­tons burst from her tweed jack­et and pinged off the walls – she was in­flat­ing like a mon­strous bal­loon, her stom­ach burst­ing free of her tweed waist­band, each of her fin­gers blow­ing up like a sala­mi …

‘MARGE!’ yelled Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia to­geth­er, as Aunt Marge’s whole body be­gan to rise off her chair to­wards the ceil­ing. She was en­tire­ly round, now, like a vast life buoy with pig­gy eyes, and her hands and feet stuck out weird­ly as she drift­ed up in­to the air, mak­ing apoplec­tic pop­ping nois­es. Rip­per came skid­ding in­to the room, bark­ing mad­ly.

‘NOOOOOOO!’

Un­cle Ver­non seized one of Marge’s feet and tried to pull her down again, but was al­most lift­ed from the floor him­self. Next sec­ond, Rip­per had leapt for­ward and sunk his teeth in­to Un­cle Ver­non’s leg.

Har­ry tore from the din­ing room be­fore any­one could stop him, head­ing for the cup­board un­der the stairs. The cup­board door burst mag­ical­ly open as he reached it. In sec­onds, he had heaved his trunk to the front door. He sprint­ed up­stairs and threw him­self un­der the bed, wrenched up the loose floor­board and grabbed the pil­low­case full of his books and birth­day presents. He wrig­gled out, seized Hed­wig’s emp­ty cage and dashed back down­stairs to his trunk, just as Un­cle Ver­non burst out of the din­ing room, his trous­er leg in bloody tat­ters.

‘COME BACK IN HERE!’ he bel­lowed. ‘COME BACK AND PUT HER RIGHT!’

But a reck­less rage had come over Har­ry. He kicked his trunk open, pulled out his wand and point­ed it at Un­cle Ver­non.

‘She de­served it,’ Har­ry said, breath­ing very fast. ‘She de­served what she got. You keep away from me.’

He fum­bled be­hind him for the catch on the door.

‘I’m go­ing,’ Har­ry said. ‘I’ve had enough.’

And next mo­ment, he was out in the dark, qui­et street, heav­ing his heavy trunk be­hind him, Hed­wig’s cage un­der his arm.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER THREE


The Knight Bus



Har­ry was sev­er­al streets away be­fore he col­lapsed on­to a low wall in Mag­no­lia Cres­cent, pant­ing from the ef­fort of drag­ging his trunk. He sat quite still, anger still surg­ing through him, lis­ten­ing to the fran­tic thump­ing of his heart.

But af­ter ten min­utes alone in the dark street, a new emo­tion over­took him: pan­ic. Whichev­er way he looked at it, he had nev­er been in a worse fix. He was strand­ed, quite alone, in the dark Mug­gle world, with ab­so­lute­ly nowhere to go. And the worst of it was, he had just done se­ri­ous mag­ic, which meant that he was al­most cer­tain­ly ex­pelled from Hog­warts. He had bro­ken the De­cree for the Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Wiz­ardry so bad­ly, he was sur­prised Min­istry of Mag­ic rep­re­sen­ta­tives weren’t swoop­ing down on him where he sat.

Har­ry shiv­ered and looked up and down Mag­no­lia Cres­cent. What was go­ing to hap­pen to him? Would he be ar­rest­ed, or would he sim­ply be out­lawed from the wiz­ard­ing world? He thought of Ron and Hermione, and his heart sank even low­er. Har­ry was sure that, crim­inal or not, Ron and Hermione would want to help him now, but they were both abroad, and with Hed­wig gone, he had no means of con­tact­ing them.

He didn’t have any Mug­gle mon­ey, ei­ther. There was a lit­tle wiz­ard gold in the mon­ey­bag at the bot­tom of his trunk, but the rest of the for­tune his par­ents had left him was stored in a vault at Gringotts Wiz­ard­ing Bank in Lon­don. He’d nev­er be able to drag his trunk all the way to Lon­don. Un­less …

He looked down at his wand, which he was still clutch­ing in his hand. If he was al­ready ex­pelled (his heart was now thump­ing painful­ly fast), a bit more mag­ic couldn’t hurt. He had the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak he had in­her­it­ed from his fa­ther – what if he be­witched the trunk to make it feath­er-​light, tied it to his broom­stick, cov­ered him­self in the Cloak and flew to Lon­don? Then he could get the rest of his mon­ey out of his vault and … be­gin his life as an out­cast. It was a hor­ri­ble prospect, but he couldn’t sit on this wall for ev­er or he’d find him­self try­ing to ex­plain to Mug­gle po­lice why he was out in the dead of night with a trunk­ful of spell­books and a broom­stick.

Har­ry opened his trunk again and pushed the con­tents aside, look­ing for the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak – but be­fore he had found it, he straight­ened up sud­den­ly, look­ing around him once more.

A fun­ny prick­ling on the back of his neck had made Har­ry feel he was be­ing watched, but the street ap­peared to be de­sert­ed, and no lights shone from any of the large square hous­es.

He bent over his trunk again, but al­most im­me­di­ate­ly stood up once more, his hand clenched on his wand. He had sensed rather than heard it: some­one or some­thing was stand­ing in the nar­row gap be­tween the garage and the fence be­hind him. Har­ry squint­ed at the black al­ley­way. If on­ly it would move, then he’d know whether it was just a stray cat or – some­thing else.

‘Lu­mos,’ Har­ry mut­tered, and a light ap­peared at the end of his wand, al­most daz­zling him. He held it high over his head, and the peb­ble-​dashed walls of num­ber two sud­den­ly sparkled; the garage door gleamed, and be­tween them, Har­ry saw, quite dis­tinct­ly, the hulk­ing out­line of some­thing very big, with wide, gleam­ing eyes.

Har­ry stepped back­wards. His legs hit his trunk and he tripped. His wand flew out of his hand as he flung out an arm to break his fall, and he land­ed, hard, in the gut­ter.

There was a deaf­en­ing BANG and Har­ry threw up his hands to shield his eyes against a sud­den blind­ing light …

With a yell, he rolled back on­to the pave­ment, just in time. A sec­ond lat­er, a gi­gan­tic pair of wheels and head­lights had screeched to a halt ex­act­ly where Har­ry had just been ly­ing. They be­longed, as Har­ry saw when he raised his head, to a triple-​deck­er, vi­olent­ly pur­ple bus, which had ap­peared out of thin air. Gold let­ter­ing over the wind­screen spelled The Knight Bus.

For a split sec­ond, Har­ry won­dered if he had been knocked sil­ly by his fall. Then a con­duc­tor in a pur­ple uni­form leapt out of the bus and be­gan to speak loud­ly to the night.

‘Wel­come to the Knight Bus, emer­gen­cy trans­port for the strand­ed witch or wiz­ard. Just stick out your wand hand, step on board and we can take you any­where you want to go. My name is Stan Shun­pike, and I will be your con­duc­tor this eve –’

The con­duc­tor stopped abrupt­ly. He had just caught sight of Har­ry, who was still sit­ting on the ground. Har­ry snatched up his wand again and scram­bled to his feet. Close to, he saw that Stan Shun­pike was on­ly a few years old­er than he was; eigh­teen or nine­teen at most, with large, pro­trud­ing ears and a fair few pim­ples.

‘What were you doin’ down there?’ said Stan, drop­ping his pro­fes­sion­al man­ner.

‘Fell over,’ said Har­ry.

‘’Choo fall over for?’ snig­gered Stan.

‘I didn’t do it on pur­pose,’ said Har­ry, an­noyed. One of the knees in his jeans was torn, and the hand he had thrown out to break his fall was bleed­ing. He sud­den­ly re­mem­bered why he had fall­en over, and turned around quick­ly to stare at the al­ley­way be­tween the garage and fence. The Knight Bus’s head­lamps were flood­ing it with light, and it was emp­ty.

‘’Choo lookin’ at?’ said Stan.

‘There was a big black thing,’ said Har­ry, point­ing un­cer­tain­ly in­to the gap. ‘Like a dog … but mas­sive …’

He looked around at Stan, whose mouth was slight­ly open. With a feel­ing of un­ease, Har­ry saw Stan’s eyes move to the scar on Har­ry’s fore­head.

‘Woss that on your ’ead?’ said Stan abrupt­ly.

‘Noth­ing,’ said Har­ry quick­ly, flat­ten­ing his hair over his scar. If the Min­istry of Mag­ic was look­ing for him, he didn’t want to make it too easy for them.

‘Woss your name?’ Stan per­sist­ed.

‘Neville Long­bot­tom,’ said Har­ry, say­ing the first name that came in­to his head. ‘So – so this bus,’ he went on quick­ly, hop­ing to dis­tract Stan, ‘did you say it goes any­where?’

‘Yep,’ said Stan proud­ly, ‘any­where you like, long’s it’s on land. Can’t do nuffink un­der­wa­ter. ’Ere,’ he said, look­ing sus­pi­cious again, ‘you did flag us down, din­cha? Stuck out your wand ’and, din­cha?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘Lis­ten, how much would it be to get to Lon­don?’

‘Eleven Sick­les,’ said Stan, ‘but for fir­teen you get ’ot choco­late, and for fif­teen you get an ’ot-​wa­ter bot­tle an’ a toof­brush in the colour of your choice.’

Har­ry rum­maged once more in his trunk, ex­tract­ed his mon­ey bag and shoved some sil­ver in­to Stan’s hand. He and Stan then lift­ed his trunk, with Hed­wig’s cage bal­anced on top, up the steps of the bus.

There were no seats; in­stead, half-​a-​dozen brass bed­steads stood be­side the cur­tained win­dows. Can­dles were burn­ing in brack­ets be­side each bed, il­lu­mi­nat­ing the wood-​pan­elled walls. A tiny wiz­ard in a night­cap at the rear of the bus mut­tered, ‘Not now, thanks, I’m pick­ling some slugs,’ and rolled over in his sleep.

‘You ’ave this one,’ Stan whis­pered, shov­ing Har­ry’s trunk un­der the bed right be­hind the driv­er, who was sit­ting in an arm­chair in front of the steer­ing wheel. ‘This is our driv­er, Ernie Prang. This is Neville Long­bot­tom, Ern.’

Ernie Prang, an el­der­ly wiz­ard wear­ing very thick glass­es, nod­ded to Har­ry, who ner­vous­ly flat­tened his fringe again and sat down on his bed.

‘Take ’er away, Ern,’ said Stan, sit­ting down in the arm­chair next to Ernie’s.

There was an­oth­er tremen­dous BANG, and next mo­ment Har­ry found him­self flat on his bed, thrown back­wards by the speed of the Knight Bus. Pulling him­self up, Har­ry stared out of the dark win­dow and saw that they were now bowl­ing along a com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent street. Stan was watch­ing Har­ry’s stunned face with great en­joy­ment.

‘This is where we was be­fore you flagged us down,’ he said. ‘Where are we, Ern? Some­where in Wales?’

‘Ar,’ said Ernie.

‘How come the Mug­gles don’t hear the bus?’ said Har­ry.

‘Them!’ said Stan con­temp­tu­ous­ly. ‘Don’ lis­ten prop­er­ly, do they? Don’ look prop­er­ly ei­ther. Nev­er no­tice nuffink, they don’.’

‘Best go wake up Madam Marsh, Stan,’ said Ern. ‘We’ll be in Aber­gaven­ny in a minute.’

Stan passed Har­ry’s bed and dis­ap­peared up a nar­row wood­en stair­case. Har­ry was still look­ing out of the win­dow, feel­ing in­creas­ing­ly ner­vous. Ernie didn’t seem to have mas­tered the use of a steer­ing wheel. The Knight Bus kept mount­ing the pave­ment, but it didn’t hit any­thing; lines of lamp posts, let­ter box­es and bins jumped out of its way as it ap­proached and back in­to po­si­tion once it had passed.

Stan came back down­stairs, fol­lowed by a faint­ly green witch wrapped in a trav­el­ling cloak.

‘’Ere you go, Madam Marsh,’ said Stan hap­pi­ly, as Ern stamped on the brake and the beds slid a foot or so to­wards the front of the bus. Madam Marsh clamped a hand­ker­chief to her mouth and tot­tered down the steps. Stan threw her bag out af­ter her and rammed the doors shut; there was an­oth­er loud BANG, and they were thun­der­ing down a nar­row coun­try lane, trees leap­ing out of the way.

Har­ry wouldn’t have been able to sleep even if he had been trav­el­ling on a bus that didn’t keep bang­ing loud­ly and jump­ing a hun­dred miles at a time. His stom­ach churned as he fell back to won­der­ing what was go­ing to hap­pen to him, and whether the Durs­leys had man­aged to get Aunt Marge off the ceil­ing yet.

Stan had un­furled a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet and was now read­ing with his tongue be­tween his teeth. A large pho­to­graph of a sunken-​faced man with long, mat­ted hair blinked slow­ly at Har­ry from the front page. He looked strange­ly fa­mil­iar.

‘That man!’ Har­ry said, for­get­ting his trou­bles for a mo­ment. ‘He was on the Mug­gle news!’

Stan­ley turned to the front page and chuck­led.

‘Sir­ius Black,’ he said, nod­ding. ‘’Course ’e was on the Mug­gle news, Neville. Where you been?’

He gave a su­pe­ri­or sort of chuck­le at the blank look on Har­ry’s face, re­moved the front page and hand­ed it to Har­ry.

‘You ough­ta read the pa­pers more, Neville.’

Har­ry held the pa­per up to the can­dle­light and read:



BLACK STILL AT LARGE

Sir­ius Black, pos­si­bly the most in­fa­mous pris­on­er ev­er to be held in Azk­aban fortress, is still elud­ing cap­ture, the Min­istry of Mag­ic con­firmed to­day.

‘We are do­ing all we can to re­cap­ture Black,’ said the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, Cor­nelius Fudge, this morn­ing, ‘and we beg the mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty to re­main calm.’

Fudge has been crit­icised by some mem­bers of the In­ter­na­tion­al Fed­er­ation of War­locks for in­form­ing the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter of the cri­sis.

‘Well, re­al­ly, I had to, don’t you know,’ said an ir­ri­ta­ble Fudge. ‘Black is mad. He’s a dan­ger to any­one who cross­es him, mag­ic or Mug­gle. I have the Prime Min­is­ter’s as­sur­ance that he will not breathe a word of Black’s true iden­ti­ty to any­one. And let’s face it – who’d be­lieve him if he did?’

‘While Mug­gles have been told that Black is car­ry­ing a gun (a kind of met­al wand which Mug­gles use to kill each oth­er), the mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty lives in fear of a mas­sacre like that of twelve years ago, when Black mur­dered thir­teen peo­ple with a sin­gle curse.’



Har­ry looked in­to the shad­owed eyes of Sir­ius Black, the on­ly part of the sunken face that seemed alive. Har­ry had nev­er met a vam­pire, but he had seen pic­tures of them in his De­fence Against the Dark Arts class­es, and Black, with his waxy white skin, looked just like one.

‘Scary-​lookin’ fing, in­ee?’ said Stan, who had been watch­ing Har­ry read.

‘He mur­dered thir­teen peo­ple?’ said Har­ry, hand­ing the page back to Stan, ‘with one curse?’

‘Yep,’ said Stan. ‘In front of wit­ness­es an’ all. Broad day­light. Big trou­ble it caused, din­nit, Ern?’

‘Ar,’ said Ern dark­ly.

Stan swiv­elled in his arm­chair, his hands on the back, the bet­ter to look at Har­ry.

‘Black woz a big sup­port­er of You-​Know-’Oo,’ he said.

‘What, Volde­mort?’ said Har­ry, with­out think­ing.

Even Stan’s pim­ples went white; Ern jerked the steer­ing wheel so hard that a whole farm­house had to jump aside to avoid the bus.

‘You out­ta your tree?’ yelped Stan. ‘’Choo say ’is name for?’

‘Sor­ry,’ said Har­ry hasti­ly. ‘Sor­ry, I – I for­got –’

‘For­got!’ said Stan weak­ly. ‘Blimey, my ’eart’s goin’ that fast …’

‘So – so Black was a sup­port­er of You-​Know-​Who?’ Har­ry prompt­ed apolo­get­ical­ly.

‘Yeah,’ said Stan, still rub­bing his chest. ‘Yeah, that’s right. Very close to You-​Know-’Oo, they say … any­way, when lit­tle ’Ar­ry Pot­ter put paid to You-​Know-’Oo’ – Har­ry ner­vous­ly flat­tened his fringe down again – ‘all You-​Know-’Oo’s sup­port­ers was tracked down, wasn’t they, Ern? Most of ’em knew it was all over, wiv You-​Know-’Oo gone, and they came qui­et. But not Sir­ius Black. I ’eard he thought ’e’d be sec­ond-​in-​com­mand once You-​Know-’Oo ’ad tak­en over.

‘Any­way, they cor­nered Black in the mid­dle of a street full of Mug­gles an’ Black took out ’is wand and ’e blast­ed ’alf the street apart, an’ a wiz­ard got it, an’ so did a dozen Mug­gles what got in the way. ’Or­ri­ble, eh? An’ you know what Black did then?’ Stan con­tin­ued in a dra­mat­ic whis­per.

‘What?’ said Har­ry.

‘Laughed,’ said Stan. ‘Jus’ stood there an’ laughed. An’ when re­in­force­ments from the Min­istry of Mag­ic got there, ’e went wiv ’em qui­et as anyfink, still laugh­ing ’is ’ead off. ’Cos ’e’s mad, in­ee, Ern? In­ee mad?’

‘If he weren’t when he went to Azk­aban, he will be now,’ said Ern in his slow voice. ‘I’d blow me­self up be­fore I set foot in that place. Serves him right, mind … af­ter what he did …’

‘They ’ad a job cov­erin’ it up, din’ they, Ern?’ Stan said. ‘’Ole street blown up an’ all them Mug­gles dead. What was it they said ’ad ’ap­pened, Ern?’

‘Gas ex­plo­sion,’ grunt­ed Ernie.

‘An’ now ’e’s out,’ said Stan, ex­am­in­ing the news­pa­per pic­ture of Black’s gaunt face again. ‘Nev­er been a break­out from Azk­aban be­fore, ’as there, Ern? Beats me ’ow ’e did it. Fright­enin’, eh? Mind, I don’t fan­cy ’is chances against them Azk­aban guards, eh, Ern?’

Ernie sud­den­ly shiv­ered.

‘Talk about sum­mat else, Stan, there’s a good lad. Them Azk­aban guards give me the col­ly­wob­bles.’

Stan put the pa­per away re­luc­tant­ly and Har­ry leaned against the win­dow of the Knight Bus, feel­ing worse than ev­er. He couldn’t help imag­in­ing what Stan might be telling his pas­sen­gers in a few nights’ time.

‘’Ear about that ’Ar­ry Pot­ter? Blew up ’is Aunt! We ’ad ’im ’ere on the Knight Bus, di’n’t we, Ern? ’E was tryin’ to run for it …’

He, Har­ry, had bro­ken wiz­ard law just like Sir­ius Black. Was in­flat­ing Aunt Marge bad enough to land him in Azk­aban? Har­ry didn’t know any­thing about the wiz­ard prison, though ev­ery­one he’d ev­er heard speak of it did so in the same fear­ful tone. Ha­grid the Hog­warts game­keep­er had spend two months there on­ly last year. Har­ry wouldn’t soon for­get the look of ter­ror on Ha­grid’s face when he had been told where he was go­ing, and Ha­grid was one of the bravest peo­ple Har­ry knew.

The Knight Bus rolled through the dark­ness, scat­ter­ing bush­es and bol­lards, tele­phone box­es and trees, and Har­ry lay, rest­less and mis­er­able, on his feath­er bed. Af­ter a while, Stan re­mem­bered that Har­ry had paid for hot choco­late, but poured it all over Har­ry’s pil­low when the bus moved abrupt­ly from An­gle­sea to Ab­erdeen. One by one, wiz­ards and witch­es in dress­ing gowns and slip­pers de­scend­ed from the up­per floors to leave the bus. They all looked very pleased to go.

Fi­nal­ly, Har­ry was the on­ly pas­sen­ger left.

‘Right then, Neville,’ said Stan, clap­ping his hands, ‘where­abouts in Lon­don?’

‘Di­agon Al­ley’ said Har­ry.

‘Righto,’ said Stan, ‘’old tight, then …’

BANG

They were thun­der­ing along Char­ing Cross Road. Har­ry sat up and watched build­ings and bench­es squeez­ing them­selves out of the Knight Bus’s way. The sky was get­ting a lit­tle lighter. He would lie low for a cou­ple of hours, go to Gringotts the mo­ment it opened, then set off – where, he didn’t know.

Ern slammed on the brakes and the Knight Bus skid­ded to a halt in front of a small and shab­by-​look­ing pub, the Leaky Caul­dron, be­hind which lay the mag­ical en­trance to Di­agon Al­ley.

‘Thanks,’ Har­ry said to Ern.

He jumped down the steps and helped Stan low­er his trunk and Hed­wig’s cage on­to the pave­ment.

‘Well,’ said Har­ry, ‘bye then!’

But Stan wasn’t pay­ing at­ten­tion. Still stand­ing in the door­way to the bus, he was gog­gling at the shad­owy en­trance to the Leaky Caul­dron.

‘There you are, Har­ry’ said a voice.

Be­fore Har­ry could turn, he felt a hand on his shoul­der. At the same time, Stan shout­ed, ‘Blimey! Ern, come ’ere! Come ’ere!’

Har­ry looked up at the own­er of the hand on his shoul­der and felt a buck­et­ful of ice cas­cade in­to his stom­ach – he had walked right in­to Cor­nelius Fudge, the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic him­self.

Stan leapt on­to the pave­ment be­side them.

‘What did­ja call Neville, Min­is­ter?’ he said ex­cit­ed­ly.

Fudge, a port­ly lit­tle man in a long, pin­striped cloak, looked cold and ex­haust­ed.

‘Neville?’ he re­peat­ed, frown­ing. ‘This is Har­ry Pot­ter.’

‘I knew it!’ Stan shout­ed glee­ful­ly. ‘Ern! Ern! Guess ’oo Neville is, Ern! ’E’s ’Ar­ry Pot­ter! I can see ’is scar!’

‘Yes,’ said Fudge testi­ly. ‘Well, I’m very glad the Knight Bus picked Har­ry up, but he and I need to step in­side the Leaky Caul­dron now …’

Fudge in­creased the pres­sure on Har­ry’s shoul­der, and Har­ry found him­self be­ing steered in­side the pub. A stoop­ing fig­ure bear­ing a lantern ap­peared through the door be­hind the bar. It was Tom, the wiz­ened, tooth­less land­lord.

‘You’ve got him, Min­is­ter!’ said Tom. ‘Will you be want­ing any­thing? Beer? Brandy?’

‘Per­haps a pot of tea,’ said Fudge, who still hadn’t let go of Har­ry.

There was a loud scrap­ing and puff­ing from be­hind them, and Stan and Ern ap­peared, car­ry­ing Har­ry’s trunk and Hed­wig’s cage and look­ing around ex­cit­ed­ly.

‘’Ow come you di’n’t tell us ’oo you are, eh, Neville?’ said Stan, beam­ing at Har­ry, while Ernie’s owlish face peered in­ter­est­ed­ly over Stan’s shoul­der.

‘And a pri­vate par­lour, please, Tom,’ said Fudge point­ed­ly.

‘Bye,’ Har­ry said mis­er­ably to Stan and Ern, as Tom beck­oned Fudge to­wards the pas­sage that led from the bar.

‘Bye, Neville!’ called Stan.

Fudge marched Har­ry along the nar­row pas­sage af­ter Tom’s lantern, and then in­to a small par­lour. Tom clicked his fin­gers, a fire burst in­to life in the grate, and he bowed him­self out of the room.

‘Sit down, Har­ry,’ said Fudge, in­di­cat­ing a chair by the fire.

Har­ry sat down, feel­ing goose­bumps ris­ing up his arms de­spite the glow of the fire. Fudge took off his pin­striped cloak and tossed it aside, then hitched up the trousers of his bot­tle-​green suit and sat down op­po­site Har­ry.

‘I am Cor­nelius Fudge, Har­ry. The Min­is­ter for Mag­ic.’

Har­ry al­ready knew this, of course; he had seen Fudge once be­fore, but as he had been wear­ing his fa­ther’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak at the time, Fudge wasn’t to know that.

Tom the innkeep­er reap­peared, wear­ing an apron over his night­shirt and bear­ing a tray of tea and crum­pets. He placed the tray on a ta­ble be­tween Fudge and Har­ry, and left the par­lour, clos­ing the door be­hind him.

‘Well, Har­ry,’ said Fudge, pour­ing out tea, ‘you’ve had us all in a right flap, I don’t mind telling you. Run­ning away from your aunt and un­cle’s house like that! I’d start­ed to think … but you’re safe, and that’s what mat­ters.’

Fudge but­tered him­self a crum­pet and pushed the plate to­wards Har­ry.

‘Eat, Har­ry, you look dead on your feet. Now then … You will be pleased to hear that we have dealt with the un­for­tu­nate blow­ing-​up of Miss Mar­jorie Durs­ley. Two mem­bers of the Ac­ci­den­tal Mag­ic Re­ver­sal De­part­ment were dis­patched to Priv­et Drive a few hours ago. Miss Durs­ley has been punc­tured and her mem­ory has been mod­ified. She has no rec­ol­lec­tion of the in­ci­dent at all. So that’s that, and no harm done.’

Fudge smiled at Har­ry over the rim of his teacup, rather like an un­cle sur­vey­ing a favourite nephew. Har­ry, who couldn’t be­lieve his ears, opened his mouth to speak, couldn’t think of any­thing to say, and closed it again.

‘Ah, you’re wor­ry­ing about the re­ac­tion of your aunt and un­cle?’ said Fudge. ‘Well, I won’t de­ny that they are ex­treme­ly an­gry, Har­ry, but they are pre­pared to take you back next sum­mer as long as you stay at Hog­warts for the Christ­mas and East­er hol­idays.’

Har­ry un­stuck his throat.

‘I al­ways stay at Hog­warts for the Christ­mas and East­er hol­idays,’ he said, ‘and I don’t ev­er want to go back to Priv­et Drive.’

‘Now, now, I’m sure you’ll feel dif­fer­ent­ly once you’ve calmed down,’ said Fudge in a wor­ried tone. ‘They are your fam­ily, af­ter all, and I’m sure you are fond of each oth­er – er – very deep down.’

It didn’t oc­cur to Har­ry to put Fudge right. He was still wait­ing to hear what was go­ing to hap­pen to him now.

‘So all that re­mains,’ said Fudge, now but­ter­ing him­self a sec­ond crum­pet, ‘is to de­cide where you’re go­ing to spend the last two weeks of your hol­idays. I sug­gest you take a room here at the Leaky Caul­dron and –’

‘Hang on,’ blurt­ed Har­ry, ‘what about my pun­ish­ment?’

Fudge blinked.

‘Pun­ish­ment?’

‘I broke the law!’ Har­ry said. ‘The De­cree for the Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Wiz­ardry!’

‘Oh, my dear boy, we’re not go­ing to pun­ish you for a lit­tle thing like that!’ cried Fudge, wav­ing his crum­pet im­pa­tient­ly. ‘It was an ac­ci­dent! We don’t send peo­ple to Azk­aban just for blow­ing up their aunts!’

But this didn’t tal­ly at all with Har­ry’s past deal­ings with the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

‘Last year, I got an of­fi­cial warn­ing just be­cause a house-​elf smashed a pud­ding in my un­cle’s house!’ said Har­ry, frown­ing. ‘The Min­istry of Mag­ic said I’d be ex­pelled from Hog­warts if there was any more mag­ic there!’

Un­less Har­ry’s eyes were de­ceiv­ing him, Fudge was sud­den­ly look­ing awk­ward.

‘Cir­cum­stances change, Har­ry … we have to take in­to ac­count … in the present cli­mate … sure­ly you don’t want to be ex­pelled?’

‘Of course I don’t,’ said Har­ry.

‘Well then, what’s all the fuss about?’ laughed Fudge air­ily. ‘Now, have a crum­pet, Har­ry, while I go and see if Tom’s got a room for you.’

Fudge strode out of the par­lour and Har­ry stared af­ter him. There was some­thing ex­treme­ly odd go­ing on. Why had Fudge been wait­ing for him at the Leaky Caul­dron, if not to pun­ish him for what he’d done. And now Har­ry came to think of it, sure­ly it wasn’t usu­al for the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic him­self to get in­volved in mat­ters of un­der­age mag­ic?

Fudge came back, ac­com­pa­nied by Tom the innkeep­er.

‘Room eleven’s free, Har­ry,’ said Fudge. ‘I think you’ll be very com­fort­able. Just one thing, and I’m sure you’ll un­der­stand: I don’t want you wan­der­ing off in­to Mug­gle Lon­don, all right? Keep to Di­agon Al­ley. And you’re to be back here be­fore dark each night. Sure you’ll un­der­stand. Tom will be keep­ing an eye on you for me.’

‘OK,’ said Har­ry slow­ly, ‘but why –?’

‘Don’t want to lose you again, do we?’ said Fudge with a hearty laugh. ‘No, no … best we know where you are … I mean …’

Fudge cleared his throat loud­ly and picked up his pin­striped cloak.

‘Well, I’ll be off, plen­ty to do, you know.’

‘Have you had any luck with Black yet?’ Har­ry asked.

Fudge’s fin­gers slipped on the sil­ver fas­ten­ings of his cloak.

‘What’s that? Oh, you’ve heard – well, no, not yet, but it’s on­ly a mat­ter of time. The Azk­aban guards have nev­er yet failed … and they are an­gri­er than I’ve ev­er seen them.’

Fudge shud­dered slight­ly.

‘So, I’ll say good­bye.’

He held out his hand and Har­ry, shak­ing it, had a sud­den idea.

‘Er – Min­is­ter? Can I ask you some­thing?’

‘Cer­tain­ly’ smiled Fudge.

‘Well, third years at Hog­warts are al­lowed to vis­it Hogsmeade, but my aunt and un­cle didn’t sign the per­mis­sion form. D’you think you could?’

Fudge was look­ing un­com­fort­able.

‘Ah,’ he said. ‘No. No, I’m very sor­ry, Har­ry, but as I’m not your par­ent or guardian –’

‘But you’re the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic,’ said Har­ry ea­ger­ly. ‘If you gave me per­mis­sion –’

‘No, I’m sor­ry, Har­ry, but rules are rules,’ said Fudge flat­ly. ‘Per­haps you’ll be able to vis­it Hogsmeade next year. In fact, I think it best if you don’t … yes … well, I’ll be off. En­joy your stay, Har­ry.’

And with a last smile and shake of Har­ry’s hand, Fudge left the room. Tom now moved for­ward, beam­ing at Har­ry.

‘If you’ll fol­low me, Mr Pot­ter,’ he said. ‘I’ve al­ready tak­en your things up …’

Har­ry fol­lowed Tom up a hand­some wood­en stair­case to a door with a brass num­ber eleven on it, which Tom un­locked and opened for him.

In­side was a very com­fort­able-​look­ing bed, some high­ly pol­ished oak fur­ni­ture, a cheer­ful­ly crack­ling fire and, perched on top of the wardrobe –

‘Hed­wig!’ Har­ry gasped.

The snowy owl clicked her break and flut­tered down on­to Har­ry’s arm.

‘Very smart owl you’ve got there,’ chuck­led Tom. ‘Ar­rived about five min­utes af­ter you did. If there’s any­thing you need, Mr Pot­ter, don’t hes­itate to ask.’

He gave an­oth­er bow and left.

Har­ry sat on his bed for a long time, ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly stroking Hed­wig. The sky out­side the win­dow was chang­ing rapid­ly from deep, vel­vety blue to cold, steely grey and then, slow­ly, to pink shot with gold. Har­ry could hard­ly be­lieve that he’d on­ly left Priv­et Drive a few hours ago, that he wasn’t ex­pelled, and that he was now fac­ing two com­plete­ly Durs­ley-​free weeks.

‘It’s been a very weird night, Hed­wig,’ he yawned.

And with­out even re­mov­ing his glass­es, he slumped back on­to his pil­lows and fell asleep.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER FOUR


The Leaky Caul­dron



It took Har­ry sev­er­al days to get used to his strange new free­dom. Nev­er be­fore had he been able to get up when­ev­er he want­ed or eat what­ev­er he fan­cied. He could even go wher­ev­er he liked, as long as it was in Di­agon Al­ley, and as this long cob­bled street was packed with the most fas­ci­nat­ing wiz­ard­ing shops in the world, Har­ry felt no de­sire to break his word to Fudge and stray back in­to the Mug­gle world.

Har­ry ate break­fast each morn­ing in the Leaky Caul­dron, where he liked watch­ing the oth­er guests: fun­ny lit­tle witch­es from the coun­try, up for a day’s shop­ping; ven­er­able-​look­ing wiz­ards ar­gu­ing over the lat­est ar­ti­cle in Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day; wild-​look­ing war­locks, rau­cous dwarfs and, once, what looked sus­pi­cious­ly like a hag, who or­dered a plate of raw liv­er from be­hind a thick woollen bal­acla­va.

Af­ter break­fast Har­ry would go out in­to the back yard, take out his wand, tap the third brick from the left above the dust­bin, and stand back as the arch­way in­to Di­agon Al­ley opened in the wall.

Har­ry spent the long sun­ny days ex­plor­ing the shops and eat­ing un­der the bright­ly coloured um­brel­las out­side cafes, where his fel­low din­ers were show­ing each oth­er their pur­chas­es (‘it’s a lu­nascope, old boy – no more mess­ing around with moon charts, see?’) or else dis­cussing the case of Sir­ius Black (‘per­son­al­ly I won’t let any of the chil­dren out alone un­til he’s back in Azk­aban’). Har­ry didn’t have to do his home­work un­der the blan­kets by torch­light any more; now he could sit in the bright sun­shine out­side Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice-​Cream Par­lour, fin­ish­ing all his es­says with oc­ca­sion­al help from Flo­re­an Fortes­cue him­self, who, apart from know­ing a great deal about me­dieval witch-​burn­ings, gave Har­ry free sun­daes ev­ery half-​hour.

Once Har­ry had re­filled his mon­ey bag with gold Galleons, sil­ver Sick­les and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts, he need­ed to ex­er­cise a lot of self-​con­trol not to spend the whole lot at once. He had to keep re­mind­ing him­self that he had five years to go at Hog­warts, and how it would feel to ask the Durs­leys for mon­ey for spell­books, to stop him­self buy­ing a hand­some set of sol­id gold Gob­stones (a wiz­ard­ing game rather like mar­bles, in which the stones squirt­ed a nasty-​smelling liq­uid in­to the oth­er play­er’s face when they lost a point). He was sore­ly tempt­ed, too, by the per­fect, mov­ing mod­el of the galaxy in a large glass ball, which would have meant he nev­er had to take an­oth­er As­tron­omy les­son. But the thing that test­ed Har­ry’s res­olu­tion most ap­peared in his favourite shop, Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies, a week af­ter he’d ar­rived at the Leaky Caul­dron.

Cu­ri­ous to know what the crowd in the shop was star­ing at, Har­ry edged his way in­side and squeezed in amongst the ex­cit­ed witch­es and wiz­ards un­til he glimpsed a new­ly erect­ed podi­um on which was mount­ed the most mag­nif­icent broom he had ev­er seen in his life.

‘Just come out … pro­to­type …’ a square-​jawed wiz­ard was telling his com­pan­ion.

‘It’s the fastest broom in the world, isn’t it, Dad?’ squeaked a boy younger than Har­ry, who was swing­ing off his fa­ther’s arm.

‘Irish In­ter­na­tion­al Side’s just put in an or­der for sev­en of these beau­ties!’ the pro­pri­etor of the shop told the crowd. ‘And they’re favourites for the World Cup!’

A large witch in front of Har­ry moved, and he was able to read the sign next to the broom:



THE FIRE­BOLT



This state-​of-​the-​art rac­ing broom sports a stream­lined, su­perfine han­dle of ash, treat­ed with a di­amond-​hard pol­ish and hand-​num­bered with its own reg­is­tra­tion num­ber. Each in­di­vid­ual­ly se­lect­ed birch twig in the broom­tail has been honed to aero­dy­nam­ic per­fec­tion, giv­ing the Fire­bolt un­sur­pass­able bal­ance and pin­point pre­ci­sion. The Fire­bolt has an ac­cel­er­ation of 0-150 miles an hour in ten sec­onds and in­cor­po­rates an un­break­able brak­ing charm. Price on re­quest.



Price on re­quest … Har­ry didn’t like to think how much gold the Fire­bolt would cost. He had nev­er want­ed any­thing so much in his whole life – but he had nev­er lost a Quid­ditch match on his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, and what was the point in emp­ty­ing his Gringotts vault for the Fire­bolt, when he had a very good broom al­ready? Har­ry didn’t ask for the price, but he re­turned, al­most ev­ery day af­ter that, just to look at the Fire­bolt.

There were, how­ev­er, things that Har­ry need­ed to buy. He went to the Apothe­cary to re­plen­ish his store of po­tions’ in­gre­di­ents, and as his school robes were now sev­er­al inch­es too short in the arm and leg, he vis­it­ed Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Oc­ca­sions and bought new ones. Most im­por­tant of all, he had to buy his new school books, which would in­clude those for his two new sub­jects, Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures and Div­ina­tion.

Har­ry got a sur­prise as he looked in at the book­shop win­dow. In­stead of the usu­al dis­play of gold-​em­bossed spell­books the size of paving slabs, there was a large iron cage be­hind the glass which held about a hun­dred copies of The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters. Torn pages were fly­ing ev­ery­where as the books grap­pled with each oth­er, locked to­geth­er in fu­ri­ous wrestling match­es and snap­ping ag­gres­sive­ly.

Har­ry pulled his book­list out of his pock­et and con­sult­ed it for the first time. The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters was list­ed as the set book for Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures. Now Har­ry un­der­stood why Ha­grid had said it would come in use­ful. He felt re­lieved; he had been won­der­ing whether Ha­grid want­ed help with some ter­ri­fy­ing new pet.

As Har­ry en­tered Flour­ish and Blotts, the man­ag­er came hur­ry­ing to­wards him.

‘Hog­warts?’ he said abrupt­ly. ‘Come to get your new books?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. ‘I need –’

‘Get out of the way,’ said the man­ag­er im­pa­tient­ly, brush­ing Har­ry aside. He drew on a pair of very thick gloves, picked up a large, knob­bly walk­ing stick and pro­ceed­ed to­wards the door of the Mon­ster books’ cage.

‘Hang on,’ said Har­ry quick­ly, ‘I’ve al­ready got one of those.’

‘Have you?’ A look of enor­mous re­lief spread over the man­ag­er’s face. ‘Thank heav­ens for that, I’ve been bit­ten five times al­ready this morn­ing –’

A loud rip­ping noise rent the air; two of the Mon­ster books had seized a third and were pulling it apart.

‘Stop it! Stop it!’ cried the man­ag­er, pok­ing the walk­ing stick through the bars and knock­ing the books apart. ‘I’m nev­er stock­ing them again, nev­er! It’s been bed­lam! I thought we’d seen the worst when we bought two hun­dred copies of The In­vis­ible Book of In­vis­ibil­ity – cost a for­tune, and we nev­er found them … Well, is there any­thing else I can help you with?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, look­ing down his book­list. ‘I need Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture, by Cas­san­dra Vab­latsky.’

‘Ah, start­ing Div­ina­tion, are you?’ said the man­ag­er strip­ping off his gloves and lead­ing Har­ry in­to the back of the shop, where there was a cor­ner de­vot­ed to for­tune-​telling. A small ta­ble was stacked with vol­umes such as Pre­dict­ing the Un­pre­dictable: In­su­late Your­self against Shocks and Bro­ken Balls: When For­tunes Turn Foul.

‘Here you are,’ said the man­ag­er, who had climbed a set of steps to take down a thick, black-​bound book. ‘Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. Very good guide to all your ba­sic for­tune-​telling meth­ods – palm­istry, crys­tal balls, bird en­trails …’

But Har­ry wasn’t lis­ten­ing. His eyes had fall­en on an­oth­er book, which was among a dis­play on a small ta­ble: Death Omens: What to Do When You Know the Worst is Com­ing.

‘Oh, I wouldn’t read that if I were you,’ said the as­sis­tant light­ly, look­ing to see what Har­ry was star­ing at. ‘You’ll start see­ing death omens ev­ery­where, it’s enough to fright­en any­one to death.’

But Har­ry con­tin­ued to stare at the front cov­er of the book; it showed a black dog large as a bear, with gleam­ing eyes. It looked odd­ly fa­mil­iar …

The as­sis­tant pressed Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture in­to Har­ry’s hands.

‘Any­thing else?’ he said.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, tear­ing his eyes away from the dog’s and dazed­ly con­sult­ing his book­list. ‘Er – I need In­ter­me­di­ate Trans­fig­ura­tion and The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade Three.’

Har­ry emerged from Flour­ish and Blotts ten min­utes lat­er with his new books un­der his arms, and made his way back to the Leaky Caul­dron, hard­ly notic­ing where he was go­ing and bump­ing in­to sev­er­al peo­ple.

He tramped up the stairs to his room, went in­side and tipped his books on­to his bed. Some­body had been in to tidy; the win­dows were open and sun was pour­ing in­side. Har­ry could hear the bus­es rolling by in the un­seen Mug­gle street be­hind him, and the sound of the in­vis­ible crowd be­low in Di­agon Al­ley. He caught sight of him­self in the mir­ror over the basin.

‘It can’t have been a death omen,’ he told his re­flec­tion de­fi­ant­ly. ‘I was pan­ick­ing when I saw that thing in Mag­no­lia Cres­cent. It was prob­ably just a stray dog …’

He raised his hand au­to­mat­ical­ly and tried to make his hair lie flat.

‘You’re fight­ing a los­ing bat­tle there, dear,’ said his mir­ror in a wheezy voice.

*

As the days slipped by, Har­ry start­ed look­ing wher­ev­er he went for a sign of Ron or Hermione. Plen­ty of Hog­warts stu­dents were ar­riv­ing in Di­agon Al­ley now, with the start of term so near. Har­ry met Sea­mus Finni­gan and Dean Thomas, his fel­low Gryffind­ors, in Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies, where they, too, were ogling the Fire­bolt; he al­so ran in­to the re­al Neville Long­bot­tom, a round-​faced, for­get­ful boy, out­side Flour­ish and Blotts. Har­ry didn’t stop to chat; Neville ap­peared to have mis­laid his book­list, and was be­ing told off by his very formidable-​look­ing grand­moth­er. Har­ry hoped she nev­er found out that he’d pre­tend­ed to be Neville while on the run from the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

Har­ry woke on the last day of the hol­idays, think­ing that he would at least meet Ron and Hermione to­mor­row, on the Hog­warts Ex­press. He got up, dressed, went for a last look at the Fire­bolt, and was just won­der­ing where he’d have lunch, when some­one yelled his name and he turned.

‘Har­ry! HAR­RY!’

They were there, both of them, sit­ting out­side Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice-​Cream Par­lour; Ron look­ing in­cred­ibly freck­ly Hermione very brown, both wav­ing fran­ti­cal­ly at him.

‘Fi­nal­ly!’ said Ron, grin­ning at Har­ry as he sat down. ‘We went to the Leaky Caul­dron, but they said you’d left, and we went to Flour­ish and Blotts, and Madam Malkin’s, and –’

‘I got all my school stuff last week,’ Har­ry ex­plained. ‘And how come you know I’m stay­ing at the Leaky Caul­dron?’

‘Dad,’ said Ron sim­ply.

Mr Weasley who worked at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, would of course have heard the whole sto­ry of what had hap­pened to Aunt Marge.

‘Did you re­al­ly blow up your aunt, Har­ry?’ said Hermione in a very se­ri­ous voice.

‘I didn’t mean to,’ said Har­ry, while Ron roared with laugh­ter. ‘I just – lost con­trol.’

‘It’s not fun­ny, Ron,’ said Hermione sharply. ‘Hon­est­ly I’m amazed Har­ry wasn’t ex­pelled.’

‘So am I,’ ad­mit­ted Har­ry. ‘For­get ex­pelled, I thought I was go­ing to be ar­rest­ed.’ He looked at Ron. ‘Your dad doesn’t know why Fudge let me off, does he?’

‘Prob­ably ’cause it’s you, isn’t it?’ shrugged Ron, still chuck­ling. ‘Fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter and all that. I’d hate to see what the Min­istry’d do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they’d have to dig me up first, be­cause Mum would’ve killed me. Any­way, you can ask Dad your­self this evening. We’re stay­ing at the Leaky Caul­dron tonight, too! So you can come to King’s Cross with us to­mor­row! Hermione’s there as well!’

Hermione nod­ded, beam­ing. ‘Mum and Dad dropped me off this morn­ing with all my Hog­warts things.’

‘Ex­cel­lent!’ said Har­ry hap­pi­ly. ‘So, have you got all your new books and stuff?’

‘Look at this,’ said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and open­ing it. ‘Brand-​new wand. Four­teen inch­es, wil­low, con­tain­ing one uni­corn tail-​hair. And we’ve got all our books’ – he point­ed at a large bag un­der his chair. ‘What about those Mon­ster books, eh? The as­sis­tant near­ly cried when we said we want­ed two.’

‘What’s all that, Hermione?’ Har­ry asked, point­ing at not one, but three, bulging bags in the chair next to her.

‘Well, I’m tak­ing more new sub­jects than you, aren’t I?’ said Hermione. ‘Those are my books for Arith­man­cy, Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, Div­ina­tion, the Study of An­cient Runes, Mug­gle Stud­ies –’

‘What are you do­ing Mug­gle Stud­ies for?’ said Ron, rolling his eyes at Har­ry. ‘You’re Mug­gle-​born! Your mum and dad are Mug­gles! You al­ready know all about Mug­gles!’

‘But it’ll be fas­ci­nat­ing to study them from the wiz­ard­ing point of view,’ said Hermione earnest­ly.

‘Are you plan­ning to eat or sleep at all this year, Hermione?’ asked Har­ry, while Ron snig­gered. Hermione ig­nored them.

‘I’ve still got ten Galleons,’ she said, check­ing her purse. ‘It’s my birth­day in Septem­ber, and Mum and Dad gave me some mon­ey to get my­self an ear­ly birth­day present.’

‘How about a nice book?’ said Ron in­no­cent­ly.

‘No, I don’t think so,’ said Hermione com­pos­ed­ly. ‘I re­al­ly want an owl. I mean, Har­ry’s got Hed­wig and you’ve got Er­rol –’

‘I haven’t,’ said Ron. ‘Er­rol’s a fam­ily owl. All I’ve got is Scab­bers.’ He pulled his pet rat out of his pock­et. ‘And I want to get him checked over,’ he added, plac­ing Scab­bers on the ta­ble in front of them. ‘I don’t think Egypt agreed with him.’

Scab­bers was look­ing thin­ner than usu­al, and there was a def­inite droop to his whiskers.

‘There’s a mag­ical-​crea­ture shop just over there,’ said Har­ry, who knew Di­agon Al­ley very well by now. ‘You can see if they’ve got any­thing for Scab­bers, and Hermione can get her owl.’

So they paid for their ice-​creams and crossed the street to the Mag­ical Menagerie.

There wasn’t much room in­side. Ev­ery inch of wall was hid­den by cages. It was smelly and very noisy be­cause the oc­cu­pants of these cages were all squeak­ing, squawk­ing, jab­ber­ing or hiss­ing. The witch be­hind the counter was al­ready ad­vis­ing a wiz­ard on the care of dou­ble-​end­ed newts, so Har­ry, Ron and Hermione wait­ed, ex­am­in­ing the cages.

A pair of enor­mous pur­ple toads sat gulp­ing wet­ly and feast­ing on dead blowflies. A gi­gan­tic tor­toise with a jew­el-​en­crust­ed shell was glit­ter­ing near the win­dow. Poi­sonous or­ange snails were ooz­ing slow­ly up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rab­bit kept chang­ing in­to a silk top hat and back again with a loud pop­ping noise. Then there were cats of ev­ery colour, a noisy cage of ravens, a bas­ket of fun­ny cus­tard-​coloured fur­balls that were hum­ming loud­ly, and, on the counter, a vast cage of sleek black rats which were play­ing some sort of skip­ping game us­ing their long bald tails.

The dou­ble-​end­ed newt wiz­ard left and Ron ap­proached the counter.

‘It’s my rat,’ he told the witch. ‘He’s been a bit off-​colour ev­er since I brought him back from Egypt.’

‘Bang him on the counter,’ said the witch, pulling a pair of heavy black spec­ta­cles out of her pock­et.

Ron lift­ed Scab­bers out of his in­side pock­et and placed him next to the cage of his fel­low rats, who stopped their skip­ping tricks and scuf­fled to the wire for a bet­ter look.

Like near­ly ev­ery­thing Ron owned, Scab­bers the rat was sec­ond­hand (he had once be­longed to Ron’s broth­er Per­cy) and a bit bat­tered. Next to the glossy rats in the cage, he looked es­pe­cial­ly woe­be­gone.

‘Hm,’ said the witch, pick­ing Scab­bers up. ‘How old is this rat?’

‘Dun­no,’ said Ron. ‘Quite old. He used to be­long to my broth­er.’

‘What pow­ers does he have?’ said the witch, ex­am­in­ing Scab­bers close­ly.

‘Er –’ said Ron. The truth was that Scab­bers had nev­er shown the faintest trace of in­ter­est­ing pow­ers. The witch’s eyes moved from Scab­bers’s tat­tered left ear to his front paw, which had a toe miss­ing, and tut­ted loud­ly.

‘He’s been through the mill, this one,’ she said.

‘He was like that when Per­cy gave him to me,’ said Ron de­fen­sive­ly.

‘An or­di­nary, com­mon or gar­den rat like this can’t be ex­pect­ed to live longer than three years or so,’ said the witch. ‘Now, if you were look­ing for some­thing a bit more hard-​wear­ing, you might like one of these …’

She in­di­cat­ed the black rats, who prompt­ly start­ed skip­ping again. Ron mut­tered, ‘Show-​offs.’

‘Well, if you don’t want a re­place­ment, you can try this Rat Ton­ic,’ said the witch, reach­ing un­der the counter and bring­ing out a small red bot­tle.

‘OK,’ said Ron. ‘How much – OUCH!’

Ron buck­led as some­thing huge and or­ange came soar­ing from the top of the high­est cage, land­ed on his head and then pro­pelled it­self, spit­ting mad­ly, at Scab­bers.

‘NO, CROOK­SHANKS, NO!’ cried the witch, but Scab­bers shot from be­tween her hands like a bar of soap, land­ed splay-​legged on the floor and then scarpered for the door.

‘Scab­bers!’ Ron shout­ed, har­ing out of the shop af­ter him; Har­ry fol­lowed.

It took them near­ly ten min­utes to find Scab­bers, who had tak­en refuge un­der a wastepa­per bin out­side Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies. Ron stuffed the trem­bling rat back in­to his pock­et and straight­ened up, mas­sag­ing his head.

‘What was that?’

‘It was ei­ther a very big cat or quite a small tiger,’ said Har­ry.

‘Where’s Hermione?’

‘Prob­ably get­ting her owl.’

They made their way back up the crowd­ed street to the Mag­ical Menagerie. As they reached it, Hermione came out, but she wasn’t car­ry­ing an owl. Her arms were clamped tight­ly around the enor­mous gin­ger cat.

‘You bought that mon­ster?’ said Ron, his mouth hang­ing open.

‘He’s gor­geous, isn’t he?’ said Hermione, glow­ing.

That was a mat­ter of opin­ion, thought Har­ry. The cat’s gin­ger fur was thick and fluffy, but it was def­inite­ly a bit bow-​legged and its face looked grumpy and odd­ly squashed, as though it had run head­long in­to a brick wall. Now that Scab­bers was out of sight, how­ev­er, the cat was purring con­tent­ed­ly in Hermione’s arms.

‘Hermione, that thing near­ly scalped me!’ said Ron.

‘He didn’t mean to, did you, Crook­shanks?’ said Hermione.

‘And what about Scab­bers?’ said Ron, point­ing at the lump in his chest pock­et. ‘He needs rest and re­lax­ation! How’s he go­ing to get it with that thing around?’

‘That re­minds me, you for­got your Rat Ton­ic,’ said Hermione, slap­ping the small red bot­tle in­to Ron’s hand. ‘And stop wor­ry­ing, Crook­shanks will be sleep­ing in my dor­mi­to­ry and Scab­bers in yours. What’s the prob­lem? Poor Crook­shanks, that witch said he’d been in there for ages: no one want­ed him.’

‘I won­der why,’ said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly, as they set off to­wards the Leaky Caul­dron.

They found Mr Weasley sit­ting in the bar, read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet.

‘Har­ry!’ he said, smil­ing as he looked up. ‘How are you?’

‘Fine, thanks,’ said Har­ry, as he, Ron and Hermione joined Mr Weasley with all their shop­ping.

Mr Weasley put down his pa­per, and Har­ry saw the now fa­mil­iar pic­ture of Sir­ius Black star­ing up at him.

‘They still haven’t caught him, then?’ he asked.

‘No,’ said Mr Weasley, look­ing ex­treme­ly grave. ‘They’ve pulled us all off our reg­ular jobs at the Min­istry to try and find him, but no luck so far.’

‘Would we get a re­ward if we caught him?’ asked Ron. ‘It’d be good to get some more mon­ey –’

‘Don’t be ridicu­lous, Ron,’ said Mr Weasley, who on clos­er in­spec­tion looked very strained. ‘Black’s not go­ing to be caught by a thir­teen-​year-​old wiz­ard. It’s the Azk­aban guards who’ll get him back, you mark my words.’

At that mo­ment Mrs Weasley en­tered the bar, laden with shop­ping and fol­lowed by the twins, Fred and George, who were about to start their fifth year at Hog­warts, the new­ly elect­ed Head Boy, Per­cy, and the Weasleys’ youngest child and on­ly girl, Gin­ny.

Gin­ny who had al­ways been very tak­en with Har­ry, seemed even more hearti­ly em­bar­rassed than usu­al when she saw him, per­haps be­cause he had saved her life dur­ing their last term at Hog­warts. She went very red and mut­tered ‘hel­lo’ with­out look­ing at him. Per­cy, how­ev­er, held out his hand solemn­ly as though he and Har­ry had nev­er met and said, ‘Har­ry. How nice to see you.’

‘Hel­lo, Per­cy,’ said Har­ry, try­ing not to laugh.

‘I hope you’re well?’ said Per­cy pompous­ly shak­ing hands. It was rather like be­ing in­tro­duced to the may­or.

‘Very well, thanks –’

‘Har­ry!’ said Fred, el­bow­ing Per­cy out of the way and bow­ing deeply. ‘Sim­ply splen­did to see you, old boy –’

‘Mar­vel­lous,’ said George, push­ing Fred aside and seiz­ing Har­ry’s hand in turn. ‘Ab­so­lute­ly spiff­ing.’

Per­cy scowled.

‘That’s enough, now,’ said Mrs Weasley.

‘Mum!’ said Fred, as though he’d on­ly just spot­ted her, and seized her hand, too. ‘How re­al­ly cork­ing to see you –’

‘I said, that’s enough,’ said Mrs Weasley, de­posit­ing her shop­ping in an emp­ty chair. ‘Hel­lo, Har­ry, dear. I sup­pose you’ve heard our ex­cit­ing news?’ She point­ed at the brand-​new sil­ver badge on Per­cy’s chest. ‘Sec­ond Head Boy in the fam­ily!’ she said, swelling with pride.

‘And last,’ Fred mut­tered un­der his breath.

‘I don’t doubt that,’ said Mrs Weasley, frown­ing sud­den­ly. ‘I no­tice they haven’t made you two pre­fects.’

‘What do we want to be pre­fects for?’ said George, look­ing re­volt­ed at the very idea. ‘It’d take all the fun out of life.’

Gin­ny gig­gled.

‘You want to set a bet­ter ex­am­ple to your sis­ter!’ snapped Mrs Weasley.

‘Gin­ny’s got oth­er broth­ers to set her an ex­am­ple, Moth­er,’ said Per­cy lofti­ly. ‘I’m go­ing up to change for din­ner …’

He dis­ap­peared and George heaved a sigh.

‘We tried to shut him in a pyra­mid,’ he told Har­ry. ‘But Mum spot­ted us.’

Din­ner that night was a very en­joy­able af­fair. Tom the innkeep­er put three ta­bles to­geth­er in the par­lour and the sev­en Weasleys, Har­ry and Hermione ate their way through five de­li­cious cours­es.

‘How’re we get­ting to King’s Cross to­mor­row, Dad?’ asked Fred, as they tucked in­to a sump­tu­ous choco­late pud­ding.

‘The Min­istry’s pro­vid­ing a cou­ple of cars,’ said Mr Weasley.

Ev­ery­one looked up at him.

‘Why?’ said Per­cy cu­ri­ous­ly.

‘It’s be­cause of you, Perce,’ said George se­ri­ous­ly. ‘And there’ll be lit­tle flags on the bon­nets, with HB on them –’

‘– for Hu­mungous Big­head,’ said Fred.

Ev­ery­one ex­cept Per­cy and Mrs Weasley snort­ed in­to their pud­ding.

‘Why are the Min­istry pro­vid­ing cars, Fa­ther?’ Per­cy asked again, in a dig­ni­fied voice.

‘Well, as we haven’t got one any more,’ said Mr Weasley, ‘and as I work there, they’re do­ing me a favour …’

His voice was ca­su­al, but Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing that Mr Weasley’s ears had gone red, just like Ron’s did when he was un­der pres­sure.

‘Good job too,’ said Mrs Weasley briskly. ‘Do you re­alise how much lug­gage you’ve all got be­tween you? A nice sight you’d be on the Mug­gle Un­der­ground … You are all packed, aren’t you?’

‘Ron hasn’t put all his new things in his trunk yet,’ said Per­cy, in a long-​suf­fer­ing voice. ‘He’s dumped them on my bed.’

‘You’d bet­ter go and pack prop­er­ly, Ron, be­cause we won’t have much time in the morn­ing,’ Mrs Weasley called down the ta­ble. Ron scowled at Per­cy.

Af­ter din­ner ev­ery­one felt very full and sleepy. One by one they made their way up­stairs to their rooms to check their things for the next day. Ron and Per­cy were next door to Har­ry. He had just closed and locked his own trunk when he heard an­gry voic­es through the wall, and went to see what was go­ing on.

The door of num­ber twelve was ajar and Per­cy was shout­ing.

‘It was here, on the bed­side ta­ble, I took it off for pol­ish­ing –’

‘I haven’t touched it, all right?’ Ron roared back.

‘What’s up?’ said Har­ry.

‘My Head Boy badge has gone,’ said Per­cy, round­ing on Har­ry.

‘So’s Scab­bers’ Rat Ton­ic,’ said Ron, throw­ing things out of his trunk to look. ‘I think I might’ve left it in the bar –’

‘You’re not go­ing any­where till you’ve found my badge!’ yelled Per­cy.

‘I’ll get Scab­bers’ stuff, I’m packed,’ Har­ry said to Ron, and he went down­stairs.

Har­ry was halfway along the pas­sage to the bar, which was now very dark, when he heard an­oth­er pair of an­gry voic­es com­ing from the par­lour. A sec­ond lat­er, he recog­nised them as Mr and Mrs Weasley’s. He hes­itat­ed, not want­ing them to know he’d heard them row­ing, when the sound of his own name made him stop, then move clos­er to the par­lour door.

‘… makes no sense not to tell him,’ Mr Weasley was say­ing heat­ed­ly. ‘Har­ry’s got a right to know. I’ve tried to tell Fudge, but he in­sists on treat­ing Har­ry like a child. He’s thir­teen years old and –’

‘Arthur, the truth would ter­ri­fy him!’ said Mrs Weasley shril­ly. ‘Do you re­al­ly want to send Har­ry back to school with that hang­ing over him? For heav­en’s sake, he’s hap­py not know­ing!’

‘I don’t want to make him mis­er­able, I want to put him on his guard!’ re­tort­ed Mr Weasley. ‘You know what Har­ry and Ron are like, wan­der­ing off by them­selves – they’ve end­ed up in the For­bid­den For­est twice! But Har­ry mustn’t do that this year! When I think what could have hap­pened to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn’t picked him up, I’m pre­pared to bet he would have been dead be­fore the Min­istry found him.’

‘But he’s not dead, he’s fine, so what’s the point –’

‘Mol­ly they say Sir­ius Black’s mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever enough to es­cape from Azk­aban, and that’s sup­posed to be im­pos­si­ble. It’s been three weeks, and no one’s seen hide nor hair of him, and I don’t care what Fudge keeps telling the Dai­ly Prophet, we’re no near­er catch­ing Black than in­vent­ing self-​spelling wands. The on­ly thing we know for sure is what Black’s af­ter –’

‘But Har­ry will be per­fect­ly safe at Hog­warts.’

‘We thought Azk­aban was per­fect­ly safe. If Black can break out of Azk­aban, he can break in­to Hog­warts.’

‘But no one’s re­al­ly sure that Black’s af­ter Har­ry –’

There was a thud on wood, and Har­ry was sure Mr Weasley had banged his fist on the ta­ble.

‘Mol­ly, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn’t re­port it in the press be­cause Fudge want­ed it kept qui­et, but Fudge went out to Azk­aban the night Black es­caped. The guards told Fudge that Black’s been talk­ing in his sleep for a while now. Al­ways the same words: ‘He’s at Hog­warts … he’s at Hog­warts.’ Black is de­ranged, Mol­ly, and he wants Har­ry dead. If you ask me, he thinks mur­der­ing Har­ry will bring You-​Know-​Who back to pow­er. Black lost ev­ery­thing the night Har­ry stopped You-​Know-​Who, and he’s had twelve years alone in Azk­aban to brood on that …’

There was a si­lence. Har­ry leaned still clos­er to the door, des­per­ate to hear more.

‘Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. But you’re for­get­ting Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. I don’t think any­thing could hurt Har­ry at Hog­warts while Dum­ble­dore’s Head­mas­ter. I sup­pose he knows about all this?’

‘Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azk­aban guards sta­tion­ing them­selves around the en­trances to the school grounds. He wasn’t hap­py about it, but he agreed.’

‘Not hap­py? Why shouldn’t he be hap­py, if they’re there to catch Black?’

‘Dum­ble­dore isn’t fond of the Azk­aban guards,’ said Mr Weasley heav­ily. ‘Nor am I, if it comes to that … but when you’re deal­ing with a wiz­ard like Black, you some­times have to join forces with those you’d rather avoid.’

‘If they save Har­ry –’

‘– then I will nev­er say an­oth­er word against them,’ said Mr Weasley weari­ly. ‘It’s late, Mol­ly, we’d bet­ter go up …’

Har­ry heard chairs move. As qui­et­ly as he could, he hur­ried down the pas­sage to the bar and out of sight. The par­lour door opened, and a few sec­onds lat­er foot­steps told him that Mr and Mrs Weasley were climb­ing the stairs.

The bot­tle of rat ton­ic was ly­ing un­der the ta­ble they had sat at ear­li­er. Har­ry wait­ed un­til he heard Mr and Mrs Weasley’s bed­room door close, then head­ed back up­stairs with the bot­tle.

Fred and George were crouch­ing in the shad­ows on the land­ing, heav­ing with laugh­ter as they lis­tened to Per­cy dis­man­tling his and Ron’s room in the search for his badge.

‘We’ve got it,’ Fred whis­pered to Har­ry. ‘We’ve been im­prov­ing it.’

The badge now read Big­head Boy, Har­ry forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat ton­ic, then shut him­self in his room and lay down on his bed.

So Sir­ius Black was af­ter him. That ex­plained ev­ery­thing. Fudge had been le­nient with him be­cause he was so re­lieved to find him alive. He’d made Har­ry promise to stay in Di­agon Al­ley where there were plen­ty of wiz­ards to keep an eye on him. And he was send­ing two Min­istry cars to take them all to the sta­tion to­mor­row, so that the Weasleys could look af­ter Har­ry un­til he was on the train.

Har­ry lay lis­ten­ing to the muf­fled shout­ing next door and won­dered why he didn’t feel more scared. Sir­ius Black had mur­dered thir­teen peo­ple with one curse; Mr and Mrs Weasley ob­vi­ous­ly thought Har­ry would be pan­ic-​strick­en if he knew the truth. But Har­ry hap­pened to agree whole-​heart­ed­ly with Mrs Weasley that the safest place on earth was wher­ev­er Al­bus Dum­ble­dore hap­pened to be. Didn’t peo­ple al­ways say that Dum­ble­dore was the on­ly per­son Lord Volde­mort had ev­er been afraid of? Sure­ly Black, as Volde­mort’s right-​hand man, would be just as fright­ened of him?

And then there were these Azk­aban guards ev­ery­one kept talk­ing about. They seemed to scare most peo­ple sense­less, and if they were sta­tioned all around the school, Black’s chances of get­ting in­side seemed very re­mote.

No, all in all, the thing that both­ered Har­ry most was the fact that his chances of vis­it­ing Hogsmeade now looked like ze­ro. No­body would want Har­ry to leave the safe­ty of the cas­tle un­til Black was caught; in fact, Har­ry sus­pect­ed his ev­ery move would be care­ful­ly watched un­til the dan­ger had passed.

He scowled at the dark ceil­ing. Did they think he couldn’t look af­ter him­self? He’d es­caped Lord Volde­mort three times, he wasn’t com­plete­ly use­less …

Un­bid­den, the im­age of the beast in the shad­ows of Mag­no­lia Cres­cent crossed his mind. What to do when you know the worst is com­ing …

‘I’m not go­ing to be mur­dered,’ Har­ry said out loud.

‘That’s the spir­it, dear,’ said his mir­ror sleep­ily.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER FIVE


The De­men­tor



Tom woke Har­ry next morn­ing with his usu­al tooth­less grin and a cup of tea. Har­ry got dressed and was just per­suad­ing a dis­grun­tled Hed­wig to get back in­to her cage when Ron banged his way in­to the room, pulling a sweat­shirt over his head and look­ing ir­ri­ta­ble.

‘The soon­er we get on the train, the bet­ter,’ he said. ‘At least I can get away from Per­cy at Hog­warts. Now he’s ac­cus­ing me of drip­ping tea on his pho­to of Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter. You know,’ Ron gri­maced, ‘his girl­friend. She’s hid­den her face un­der the frame be­cause her nose has gone all blotchy …’

‘I’ve got some­thing to tell you,’ Har­ry be­gan, but they were in­ter­rupt­ed by Fred and George, who had looked in to con­grat­ulate Ron on in­fu­ri­at­ing Per­cy again.

They head­ed down to break­fast, where Mr Weasley was read­ing the front page of the Dai­ly Prophet with a fur­rowed brow and Mrs Weasley was telling Hermione and Gin­ny about a Love Po­tion she’d made as a young girl. All three of them were rather gig­gly.

‘What were you say­ing?’ Ron asked Har­ry, as they sat down.

‘Lat­er,’ Har­ry mut­tered, as Per­cy stormed in.

Har­ry had no chance to speak to Ron or Hermione in the chaos of leav­ing; they were too busy heav­ing all their trunks down the Leaky Caul­dron’s nar­row stair­case and pil­ing them up near the door, with Hed­wig and Her­mes, Per­cy’s screech owl, perched on top in their cages. A small wick­er­work bas­ket stood be­side the heap of trunks, spit­ting loud­ly.

‘It’s all right, Crook­shanks,’ Hermione cooed through the wick­er­work, ‘I’ll let you out on the train.’

‘You won’t,’ snapped Ron. ‘What about poor Scab­bers, eh?’

He point­ed at his chest, where a large lump in­di­cat­ed that Scab­bers was curled up in his pock­et.

Mr Weasley, who had been out­side wait­ing for the Min­istry cars, stuck his head in­side.

‘They’re here,’ he said. ‘Har­ry, come on.’

Mr Weasley marched Har­ry across the short stretch of pave­ment to­wards the first of two old-​fash­ioned dark green cars, each of which was driv­en by a furtive-​look­ing wiz­ard, wear­ing a suit of emer­ald vel­vet.

‘In you get, Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley, glanc­ing up and down the crowd­ed street.

Har­ry got in­to the back of the car, and was short­ly joined by Hermione, Ron and, to Ron’s dis­gust, Per­cy.

The jour­ney to King’s Cross was very un­event­ful com­pared to Har­ry’s trip on the Knight Bus. The Min­istry of Mag­ic cars seemed al­most or­di­nary, though Har­ry no­ticed that they could slide through gaps that Un­cle Ver­non’s new com­pa­ny car cer­tain­ly couldn’t have man­aged. They reached King’s Cross with twen­ty min­utes to spare; the Min­istry drivers found them trol­leys, un­load­ed their trunks, touched their hats to Mr Weasley and drove away, some­how man­ag­ing to jump to the head of an un­mov­ing queue for the traf­fic lights.

Mr Weasley kept close to Har­ry’s el­bow all the way in­to the sta­tion.

‘Right then,’ he said, glanc­ing around them. ‘Let’s do this in pairs, as there are so many of us. I’ll go through first with Har­ry.’

Mr Weasley strolled to­wards the bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten, push­ing Har­ry’s trol­ley and ap­par­ent­ly very in­ter­est­ed in the In­ter­Ci­ty 125 that had just ar­rived at plat­form nine. With a mean­ing­ful look at Har­ry, he leaned ca­su­al­ly against the bar­ri­er. Har­ry im­itat­ed him.

Next mo­ment, they had fall­en side­ways through the sol­id met­al on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters and looked up to see the Hog­warts Ex­press, a scar­let steam en­gine, puff­ing smoke over a plat­form packed with witch­es and wiz­ards see­ing their chil­dren on­to the train.

Per­cy and Gin­ny sud­den­ly ap­peared be­hind Har­ry. They were pant­ing, and had ap­par­ent­ly tak­en the bar­ri­er at a run.

‘Ah, there’s Pene­lope!’ said Per­cy, smooth­ing his hair and go­ing pink again. Gin­ny caught Har­ry’s eye and they both turned away to hide their laugh­ter as Per­cy strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walk­ing with his chest thrown out so that she couldn’t miss his shiny badge.

Once the re­main­ing Weasleys and Hermione had joined them, Har­ry and Mr Weasley led the way to the end of the train, past packed com­part­ments, to a car­riage that looked quite emp­ty. They load­ed the trunks on­to it, stowed Hed­wig and Crook­shanks in the lug­gage rack, then went back out­side to say good­bye to Mr and Mrs Weasley.

Mrs Weasley kissed all her chil­dren, then Hermione, and fi­nal­ly, Har­ry. He was em­bar­rassed, but re­al­ly quite pleased, when she gave him an ex­tra hug.

‘Do take care, won’t you, Har­ry?’ she said as she straight­ened up, her eyes odd­ly bright. Then she opened her enor­mous hand­bag and said, ‘I’ve made you all sand­wich­es. Here you are, Ron … no, they’re not corned beef … Fred? Where’s Fred? Here you are, dear …’

‘Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley qui­et­ly, ‘come over here a mo­ment.’

He jerked his head to­wards a pil­lar, and Har­ry fol­lowed him be­hind it, leav­ing the oth­ers crowd­ed around Mrs Weasley.

‘There’s some­thing I’ve got to tell you be­fore you leave –’ said Mr Weasley, in a tense voice.

‘It’s all right, Mr Weasley,’ said Har­ry, ‘I al­ready know.’

‘You know? How could you know?’

‘I – er – I heard you and Mrs Weasley talk­ing last night. I couldn’t help hear­ing,’ Har­ry added quick­ly. ‘Sor­ry –’

‘That’s not the way I’d have cho­sen for you to find out,’ said Mr Weasley, look­ing anx­ious.

‘No – hon­est­ly, it’s OK. This way, you haven’t bro­ken your word to Fudge and I know what’s go­ing on.’

‘Har­ry, you must be very scared –’

‘I’m not,’ said Har­ry sin­cere­ly. ‘Re­al­ly,’ he added, be­cause Mr Weasley was look­ing dis­be­liev­ing. ‘I’m not try­ing to be a hero, but se­ri­ous­ly, Sir­ius Black can’t be worse than Volde­mort, can he?’

Mr Weasley flinched at the sound of the name, but over­looked it.

‘Har­ry, I knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff than Fudge seems to think, and I’m ob­vi­ous­ly pleased that you’re not scared, but –’

‘Arthur!’ called Mrs Weasley, who was now shep­herd­ing the rest on­to the train. ‘Arthur, what are you do­ing? It’s about to go!’

‘He’s com­ing, Mol­ly!’ said Mr Weasley, but he turned back to Har­ry and kept talk­ing in a low­er and more hur­ried voice. ‘Lis­ten, I want you to give me your word –’

‘– that I’ll be a good boy and stay in the cas­tle?’ said Har­ry gloomi­ly.

‘Not en­tire­ly’ said Mr Weasley, who looked more se­ri­ous than Har­ry had ev­er seen him. ‘Har­ry, swear to me you won’t go look­ing for Black.’

Har­ry stared. ‘What?’

There was a loud whis­tle. Guards were walk­ing along the train, slam­ming all the doors shut.

‘Promise me, Har­ry,’ said Mr Weasley, talk­ing more quick­ly still, ‘that what­ev­er hap­pens –’

‘Why would I go look­ing for some­one I know wants to kill me?’ said Har­ry blankly.

‘Swear to me that what­ev­er you might hear –’

‘Arthur, quick­ly!’ cried Mrs Weasley.

Steam was bil­low­ing from the train; it had start­ed to move. Har­ry ran to the com­part­ment door and Ron threw it open and stood back to let him on. They leaned out of the win­dow and waved at Mr and Mrs Weasley un­til the train turned a cor­ner and blocked them from view.

‘I need to talk to you in pri­vate,’ Har­ry mut­tered to Ron and Hermione as the train picked up speed.

‘Go away, Gin­ny’ said Ron.

‘Oh, that’s nice,’ said Gin­ny huffi­ly, and she stalked off.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione set off down the cor­ri­dor, look­ing for an emp­ty com­part­ment, but all were full ex­cept for the one at the very end of the train.

This on­ly had one oc­cu­pant, a man sit­ting fast asleep next to the win­dow. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione checked on the thresh­old. The Hog­warts Ex­press was usu­al­ly re­served for stu­dents and they had nev­er seen an adult there be­fore, ex­cept for the witch who pushed the food trol­ley.

The stranger was wear­ing an ex­treme­ly shab­by set of wiz­ard’s robes which had been darned in sev­er­al places. He looked ill and ex­haust­ed. Though quite young, his light-​brown hair was flecked with grey.

‘Who d’you reck­on he is?’ Ron hissed, as they sat down and slid the door shut, tak­ing the seats fur­thest away from the win­dow.

‘Pro­fes­sor R. J. Lupin,’ whis­pered Hermione at once.

‘How d’you know that?’

‘It’s on his case,’ replied Hermione, point­ing at the lug­gage rack over the man’s head, where there was a small, bat­tered case held to­geth­er with a large quan­ti­ty of neat­ly knot­ted string. The name ‘Pro­fes­sor R. J. Lupin’ was stamped across one cor­ner in peel­ing let­ters.

‘Won­der what he teach­es?’ said Ron, frown­ing at Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s pal­lid pro­file.

‘That’s ob­vi­ous,’ whis­pered Hermione. ‘There’s on­ly one va­can­cy, isn’t there? De­fence Against the Dark Arts.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had al­ready had two De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­ers, both of whom had on­ly last­ed one year. There were ru­mours that the job was jinxed.

‘Well, I hope he’s up to it,’ said Ron doubt­ful­ly. ‘He looks like one good hex would fin­ish him off, doesn’t he? Any­way …’ he turned to Har­ry, ‘what were you go­ing to tell us?’

Har­ry ex­plained all about Mr and Mrs Weasley’s ar­gu­ment and the warn­ing Mr Weasley had just giv­en him. When he’d fin­ished, Ron looked thun­der­struck, and Hermione had her hands over her mouth. She fi­nal­ly low­ered them to say, ‘Sir­ius Black es­caped to come af­ter you? Oh, Har­ry … you’ll have to be re­al­ly, re­al­ly care­ful. Don’t go look­ing for trou­ble, Har­ry …’

‘I don’t go look­ing for trou­ble,’ said Har­ry, net­tled. ‘Trou­ble usu­al­ly finds me.’

‘How thick would Har­ry have to be, to go look­ing for a nut­ter who wants to kill him?’ said Ron shak­ily.

They were tak­ing the news worse than Har­ry had ex­pect­ed. Both Ron and Hermione seemed to be much more fright­ened of Black than he was.

‘No one knows how he got out of Azk­aban,’ said Ron un­com­fort­ably. ‘No one’s ev­er done it be­fore. And he was a top-​se­cu­ri­ty pris­on­er, too.’

‘But they’ll catch him, won’t they?’ said Hermione earnest­ly. ‘I mean, they’ve got all the Mug­gles look­ing out for him, too …’

‘What’s that noise?’ said Ron sud­den­ly.

A faint, tin­ny sort of whis­tle was com­ing from some­where. They looked all around the com­part­ment.

‘It’s com­ing from your trunk, Har­ry’ said Ron, stand­ing up and reach­ing in­to the lug­gage rack. A mo­ment lat­er he had pulled the Pock­et Sneako­scope out from be­tween Har­ry’s robes. It was spin­ning very fast in the palm of Ron’s hand, and glow­ing bril­liant­ly.

‘Is that a Sneako­scope?’ said Hermione in­ter­est­ed­ly, stand­ing up for a bet­ter look.

‘Yeah … mind you, it’s a very cheap one,’ Ron said. ‘It went hay­wire just as I was ty­ing it to Er­rol’s leg to send it to Har­ry.’

‘Were you do­ing any­thing un­trust­wor­thy at the time?’ said Hermione shrewd­ly.

‘No! Well … I wasn’t sup­posed to be us­ing Er­rol. You know he’s not re­al­ly up to long jour­neys … but how else was I sup­posed to get Har­ry’s present to him?’

‘Stick it back in the trunk,’ Har­ry ad­vised, as the Sneako­scope whis­tled pierc­ing­ly, ‘or it’ll wake him up.’

He nod­ded to­wards Pro­fes­sor Lupin. Ron stuffed the Sneako­scope in­to a par­tic­ular­ly hor­ri­ble pair of Un­cle Ver­non’s old socks, which dead­ened the sound, then closed the lid of the trunk on it.

‘We could get it checked in Hogsmeade,’ said Ron, sit­ting back down. ‘They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, mag­ical in­stru­ments and stuff, Fred and George told me.’

‘Do you know much about Hogsmeade?’ asked Hermione keen­ly. ‘I’ve read it’s the on­ly en­tire­ly non-​Mug­gle set­tle­ment in Britain –’

‘Yeah, I think it is,’ said Ron in an off­hand sort of way, ‘but that’s not why I want to go. I just want to get in­side Hon­ey­dukes!’

‘What’s that?’ said Hermione.

‘It’s this sweet­shop,’ said Ron, a dreamy look com­ing over his face, ‘where they’ve got ev­ery­thing … Pep­per Imps – they make you smoke at the mouth – and great fat Chocoballs full of straw­ber­ry mousse and clot­ted cream, and re­al­ly ex­cel­lent sug­ar quills which you can suck in class and just look like you’re think­ing what to write next –’

‘But Hogsmeade’s a very in­ter­est­ing place, isn’t it?’ Hermione pressed on ea­ger­ly. ‘In Sites of His­tor­ical Sor­cery it says the inn was the head­quar­ters for the 1612 gob­lin re­bel­lion, and the Shriek­ing Shack’s sup­posed to be the most severe­ly haunt­ed build­ing in Britain –’

‘– and mas­sive sher­bert balls that make you lev­itate a few inch­es off the ground while you’re suck­ing them,’ said Ron, who was plain­ly not lis­ten­ing to a word Hermione was say­ing.

Hermione looked around at Har­ry.

‘Won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and ex­plore Hogsmeade?’

‘’Spect it will,’ said Har­ry heav­ily. ‘You’ll have to tell me when you’ve found out.’

‘What d’you mean?’ said Ron.

‘I can’t go. The Durs­leys didn’t sign my per­mis­sion form, and Fudge wouldn’t, ei­ther.’

Ron looked hor­ri­fied.

‘You’re not al­lowed to come? But – no way – McG­ona­gall or some­one will give you per­mis­sion –’

Har­ry gave a hol­low laugh. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, head of Gryffind­or house, was very strict.

‘– or we can ask Fred and George, they know ev­ery se­cret pas­sage out of the cas­tle –’

‘Ron!’ said Hermione sharply. ‘I don’t think Har­ry should be sneak­ing out of school with Black on the loose –’

‘Yeah, I ex­pect that’s what McG­ona­gall will say when I ask for per­mis­sion,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

‘But if we’re with him,’ said Ron spirit­ed­ly to Hermione, ‘Black wouldn’t dare –’

‘Oh, Ron, don’t talk rub­bish,’ snapped Hermione. ‘Black’s al­ready mur­dered a whole bunch of peo­ple in the mid­dle of a crowd­ed street, do you re­al­ly think he’s go­ing to wor­ry about at­tack­ing Har­ry just be­cause we’re there?’

She was fum­bling with the straps of Crook­shanks’ bas­ket as she spoke.

‘Don’t let that thing out!’ Ron said, but too late; Crook­shanks leapt light­ly from the bas­ket, stretched, yawned, and sprang on­to Ron’s knees; the lump in Ron’s pock­et trem­bled and he shoved Crook­shanks an­gri­ly away.

‘Get out of it!’

‘Ron, don’t!’ said Hermione an­gri­ly.

Ron was about to an­swer back when Pro­fes­sor Lupin stirred. They watched him ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, but he sim­ply turned his head the oth­er way, mouth slight­ly open, and slept on.

The Hog­warts Ex­press moved steadi­ly north and the scenery out­side the win­dow be­came wilder and dark­er while the clouds over­head thick­ened. Peo­ple were chas­ing back­wards and for­wards past the door of their com­part­ment. Crook­shanks had now set­tled in an emp­ty seat, his squashed face turned to­wards Ron, his yel­low eyes on Ron’s top pock­et.

At one o’clock the plump witch with the food trol­ley ar­rived at the com­part­ment door.

‘D’you think we should wake him up?’ Ron asked awk­ward­ly, nod­ding to­wards Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘He looks like he could do with some food.’

Hermione ap­proached Pro­fes­sor Lupin cau­tious­ly.

‘Er – Pro­fes­sor?’ she said. ‘Ex­cuse me – Pro­fes­sor?’

He didn’t move.

‘Don’t wor­ry, dear,’ said the witch, as she hand­ed Har­ry a large stack of caul­dron cakes. ‘If he’s hun­gry when he wakes, I’ll be up front with the driv­er.’

‘I sup­pose he is asleep?’ said Ron qui­et­ly, as the witch slid the com­part­ment door closed. ‘I mean – he hasn’t died, has he?’

‘No, no, he’s breath­ing,’ whis­pered Hermione, tak­ing the caul­dron cake Har­ry passed her.

He might not be very good com­pa­ny, but Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s pres­ence in their com­part­ment had its us­es. Mid-​af­ter­noon, just as it had start­ed to rain, blur­ring the rolling hills out­side the win­dow, they heard foot­steps in the cor­ri­dor again, and their three least favourite peo­ple ap­peared at the door: Dra­co Mal­foy, flanked by his cronies, Vin­cent Crabbe and Gre­go­ry Goyle.

Dra­co Mal­foy and Har­ry had been en­emies ev­er since they had met on their very first train jour­ney to Hog­warts. Mal­foy, who had a pale, point­ed, sneer­ing face, was in Slytherin house; he played Seek­er on the Slytherin Quid­ditch team, the same po­si­tion that Har­ry played on the Gryffind­or team. Crabbe and Goyle seemed to ex­ist to do Mal­foy’s bid­ding. They were both wide and mus­cly; Crabbe was the taller, with a pud­ding-​basin hair­cut and a very thick neck; Goyle had short, bristly hair and long, go­ril­la arms.

‘Well, look who it is,’ said Mal­foy in his usu­al lazy drawl, pulling open the com­part­ment door. ‘Pot­ty and the Weasel.’

Crabbe and Goyle chuck­led trol­lish­ly.

‘I heard your fa­ther fi­nal­ly got his hands on some gold this sum­mer, Weasley,’ said Mal­foy. ‘Did your moth­er die of shock?’

Ron stood up so quick­ly he knocked Crook­shanks’ bas­ket to the floor. Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave a snort.

‘Who’s that?’ said Mal­foy, tak­ing an au­to­mat­ic step back­wards as he spot­ted Lupin.

‘New teach­er,’ said Har­ry, who had got to his feet, too, in case he need­ed to hold Ron back. ‘What were you say­ing, Mal­foy?’

Mal­foy’s pale eyes nar­rowed; he wasn’t fool enough to pick a fight right un­der a teach­er’s nose.

‘C’mon,’ he mut­tered re­sent­ful­ly to Crabbe and Goyle, and they dis­ap­peared.

Har­ry and Ron sat down again, Ron mas­sag­ing his knuck­les.

‘I’m not go­ing to take any rub­bish from Mal­foy this year,’ he said an­gri­ly. ‘I mean it. If he makes one more crack about my fam­ily, I’m go­ing to get hold of his head and –’

Ron made a vi­olent ges­ture in mid-​air.

‘Ron,’ hissed Hermione, point­ing at Pro­fes­sor Lupin, ‘be care­ful …’

But Pro­fes­sor Lupin was still fast asleep.

The rain thick­ened as the train sped yet fur­ther north; the win­dows were now a sol­id, shim­mer­ing grey, which grad­ual­ly dark­ened un­til lanterns flick­ered in­to life all along the cor­ri­dors and over the lug­gage racks. The train rat­tled, the rain ham­mered, the wind roared, but still, Pro­fes­sor Lupin slept.

‘We must be near­ly there,’ said Ron, lean­ing for­ward to look past Pro­fes­sor Lupin at the now com­plete­ly black win­dow.

The words had hard­ly left him when the train start­ed to slow down.

‘Bril­liant,’ said Ron, get­ting up and walk­ing care­ful­ly past Pro­fes­sor Lupin to try and see out­side. ‘I’m starv­ing, I want to get to the feast …’

‘We can’t be there yet,’ said Hermione, check­ing her watch.

‘So why’re we stop­ping?’

The train was get­ting slow­er and. slow­er.. As the noise of the pis­tons fell away, the wind and rain sound­ed loud­er than ev­er against the win­dows.

Har­ry, who was near­est the door, got up to look in­to the cor­ri­dor. All along the car­riage, heads were stick­ing cu­ri­ous­ly out of their com­part­ments.

The train came to a stop with a jolt and dis­tant thuds and bangs told them that lug­gage had fall­en out of the racks. Then, with­out warn­ing, all the lamps went out and they were plunged in­to to­tal dark­ness.

‘What’s go­ing on?’ said Ron’s voice from be­hind Har­ry.

‘Ouch!’ gasped Hermione. ‘Ron, that was my foot!’

Har­ry felt his way back to his seat.

‘D’you think we’ve bro­ken down?’

‘Dun­no …’

There was a squeak­ing sound, and Har­ry saw the dim black out­line of Ron, wip­ing a patch clean on the win­dow and peer­ing out.

‘There’s some­thing mov­ing out there,’ Ron said. ‘I think peo­ple are com­ing aboard …’

The com­part­ment door sud­den­ly opened and some­one fell painful­ly over Har­ry’s legs.

‘Sor­ry! D’you know what’s go­ing on? Ouch! Sor­ry –’

‘Hul­lo, Neville,’ said Har­ry, feel­ing around in the dark and pulling Neville up by his cloak.

‘Har­ry? Is that you? What’s hap­pen­ing?’

‘No idea! Sit down –’

There was a loud hiss­ing and a yelp of pain; Neville had tried to sit on Crook­shanks.

‘I’m go­ing to go and ask the driv­er what’s go­ing on,’ came Hermione’s voice. Har­ry felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again and then a thud and two loud squeals of pain.

‘Who’s that?’

‘Who’s that?’

‘Gin­ny?’

‘Hermione?’

‘What are you do­ing?’

‘I was look­ing for Ron –’

‘Come in and sit down –’

‘Not here!’ said Har­ry hur­ried­ly. ‘I’m here!’

‘Ouch!’ said Neville.

‘Qui­et!’ said a hoarse voice sud­den­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin ap­peared to have wo­ken up at last. Har­ry could hear move­ments in his cor­ner. None of them spoke.

There was a soft, crack­ling noise and a shiv­er­ing light filled the com­part­ment. Pro­fes­sor Lupin ap­peared to be hold­ing a hand­ful of flames. They il­lu­mi­nat­ed his tired grey face, but his eyes looked alert and wary.

‘Stay where you are,’ he said, in the same hoarse voice, and he got slow­ly to his feet with his hand­ful of fire held out in front of him.

But the door slid slow­ly open be­fore Lupin could reach it.

Stand­ing in the door­way, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the shiv­er­ing flames in Lupin’s hand, was a cloaked fig­ure that tow­ered to the ceil­ing. Its face was com­plete­ly hid­den be­neath its hood. Har­ry’s eyes dart­ed down­wards, and what he saw made his stom­ach con­tract. There was a hand pro­trud­ing from the cloak and it was glis­ten­ing, grey­ish, slimy-​look­ing and scabbed, like some­thing dead that had de­cayed in wa­ter …

It was vis­ible on­ly for a split sec­ond. As though the crea­ture be­neath the cloak sensed Har­ry’s gaze, the hand was sud­den­ly with­drawn in­to the folds of the black ma­te­ri­al.

And then the thing be­neath the hood, what­ev­er it was, drew a long, slow, rat­tling breath, as though it was try­ing to suck some­thing more than air from its sur­round­ings.

An in­tense cold swept over them all. Har­ry felt his own breath catch in his chest. The cold went deep­er than his skin. It was in­side his chest, it was in­side his very heart …

Har­ry’s eyes rolled up in­to his head. He couldn’t see. He was drown­ing in cold. There was a rush­ing in his ears as though of wa­ter. He was be­ing dragged down­wards, the roar­ing grow­ing loud­er …

And then, from far away, he heard scream­ing, ter­ri­ble, ter­ri­fied, plead­ing screams. He want­ed to help who­ev­er it was, he tried to move his arms, but couldn’t … a thick white fog was swirling around him, in­side him –

‘Har­ry! Har­ry! Are you all right?’

Some­one was slap­ping his face.

‘W-​what?’

Har­ry opened his eyes. There were lanterns above him, and the floor was shak­ing – the Hog­warts Ex­press was mov­ing again and the lights had come back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat on­to the floor. Ron and Hermione were kneel­ing next to him, and above them he could see Neville and Pro­fes­sor Lupin watch­ing. Har­ry felt very sick; when he put up his hand to push his glass­es back on, he felt cold sweat on his face.

Ron and Hermione heaved him back on­to his seat.

‘Are you OK?’ Ron asked ner­vous­ly.

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, look­ing quick­ly to­wards the door. The hood­ed crea­ture had van­ished. ‘What hap­pened? Where’s that – that thing? Who screamed?’

‘No one screamed,’ said Ron, more ner­vous­ly still.

Har­ry looked around the bright com­part­ment. Gin­ny and Neville looked back at him, both very pale.

‘But I heard scream­ing –’

A loud snap made them all jump. Pro­fes­sor Lupin was break­ing an enor­mous slab of choco­late in­to pieces.

‘Here,’ he said to Har­ry, hand­ing him a par­tic­ular­ly large piece. ‘Eat it. It’ll help.’

Har­ry took the choco­late but didn’t eat it.

‘What was that thing?’ he asked Lupin.

‘A De­men­tor,’ said Lupin, who was now giv­ing choco­late to ev­ery­one else. ‘One of the De­men­tors of Azk­aban.’

Ev­ery­one stared at him. Pro­fes­sor Lupin crum­pled up the emp­ty choco­late wrap­per and put it in his pock­et.

‘Eat,’ he re­peat­ed. ‘It’ll help. I need to speak to the driv­er, ex­cuse me …’

He strolled past Har­ry and dis­ap­peared in­to the cor­ri­dor.

‘Are you sure you’re OK, Har­ry?’ said Hermione, watch­ing Har­ry anx­ious­ly.

‘I don’t get it … what hap­pened?’ said Har­ry, wip­ing more sweat off his face.

‘Well – that thing – the De­men­tor – stood there and looked around (I mean, I think it did, I couldn’t see its face) – and you – you –’

‘I thought you were hav­ing a fit or some­thing,’ said Ron, who still looked scared. ‘You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and start­ed twitch­ing –’

‘And Pro­fes­sor Lupin stepped over you, and walked to­wards the De­men­tor, and pulled out his wand,’ said Hermione. ‘And he said, ‘None of us is hid­ing Sir­ius Black un­der our cloaks. Go.’ But the De­men­tor didn’t move, so Lupin mut­tered some­thing, and a sil­very thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned round and sort of glid­ed away …’

‘It was hor­ri­ble,’ said Neville, in a high­er voice than usu­al. ‘Did you feel how cold it went when it came in?’

‘I felt weird,’ said Ron, shift­ing his shoul­ders un­com­fort­ably. ‘Like I’d nev­er be cheer­ful again …’

Gin­ny, who was hud­dled in her cor­ner look­ing near­ly as bad as Har­ry felt, gave a small sob; Hermione went over and put a com­fort­ing arm around her.

‘But didn’t any of you – fall off your seats?’ said Har­ry awk­ward­ly.

‘No,’ said Ron, look­ing anx­ious­ly at Har­ry again. ‘Gin­ny was shak­ing like mad, though …’

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand. He felt weak and shiv­ery, as though he was re­cov­er­ing from a bad bout of flu; he al­so felt the be­gin­nings of shame. Why had he gone to pieces like that, when no one else had?

Pro­fes­sor Lupin had come back. He paused as he en­tered, looked around and said, with a small smile, ‘I haven’t poi­soned that choco­late, you know …’

Har­ry took a bite and to his great sur­prise felt warmth spread sud­den­ly to the tips of his fin­gers and toes.

‘We’ll be at Hog­warts in ten min­utes,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Are you all right, Har­ry?’

Har­ry didn’t ask how Pro­fes­sor Lupin knew his name.

‘Fine,’ he mut­tered, em­bar­rassed.

They didn’t talk much dur­ing the re­main­der of the jour­ney. At long last, the train stopped at Hogsmeade sta­tion, and there was a great scram­ble to get out; owls hoot­ed, cats miaowed, and Neville’s pet toad croaked loud­ly from un­der his hat. It was freez­ing on the tiny plat­form; rain was driv­ing down in icy sheets.

‘Firs’ years this way!’ called a fa­mil­iar voice. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione turned and saw the gi­gan­tic out­line of Ha­grid at the oth­er end of the plat­form, beck­on­ing the ter­ri­fied-​look­ing new stu­dents for­ward for their tra­di­tion­al jour­ney across the lake.

‘All righ’, you three?’ Ha­grid yelled over the heads of the crowd. They waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him be­cause the mass of peo­ple around them was shunt­ing them away along the plat­form. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione fol­lowed the rest of the school out on­to a rough mud track, where at least a hun­dred stage­coach­es await­ed the re­main­ing stu­dents, each pulled, Har­ry could on­ly as­sume, by an in­vis­ible horse, be­cause when they climbed in­side one and shut the door, the coach set off all by it­self, bump­ing and sway­ing in pro­ces­sion.

The coach smelled faint­ly of mould and straw. Har­ry felt bet­ter since the choco­late, but still weak. Ron and Hermione kept look­ing at him side­ways, as though fright­ened he might col­lapse again.

As the car­riage trun­dled to­wards a pair of mag­nif­icent wrought-​iron gates, flanked with stone columns topped with winged boars, Har­ry saw two more tow­er­ing, hood­ed De­men­tors, stand­ing guard on ei­ther side. A wave of cold sick­ness threat­ened to en­gulf him again; he leaned back in­to the lumpy seat and closed his eyes un­til they had passed through the gates. The car­riage picked up speed on the long, slop­ing drive up to the cas­tle; Hermione was lean­ing out of the tiny win­dow, watch­ing the many tur­rets and tow­ers draw near­er. At last, the car­riage swayed to a halt, and Hermione and Ron got out.

As Har­ry stepped down, a drawl­ing, de­light­ed voice sound­ed in his ear.

‘You faint­ed, Pot­ter? Is Long­bot­tom telling the truth? You ac­tu­al­ly faint­ed?’

Mal­foy el­bowed past Hermione to block Har­ry’s way up the stone steps to the cas­tle, his face glee­ful and his pale eyes glint­ing ma­li­cious­ly.

‘Shove off, Mal­foy’ said Ron, whose jaw was clenched.

‘Did you faint as well, Weasley?’ said Mal­foy loud­ly. ‘Did the scary old De­men­tor fright­en you, too, Weasley?’

‘Is there a prob­lem?’ said a mild voice. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had just got out of the next car­riage.

Mal­foy gave Pro­fes­sor Lupin an in­so­lent stare, which took in the patch­es on his robes and the di­lap­idat­ed suit­case. With a tiny hint of sar­casm in his voice, he said, ‘Oh, no – er – Pro­fes­sor,’ then he smirked at Crabbe and Goyle, and led them up the steps in­to the cas­tle.

Hermione prod­ded Ron in the back to make him hur­ry, and the three of them joined the crowd swarm­ing up the steps, through the gi­ant oak front doors, and in­to the cav­ernous En­trance Hall, which was lit with flam­ing torch­es and housed a mag­nif­icent mar­ble stair­case which led to the up­per floors.

The door in­to the Great Hall stood open at the right; Har­ry fol­lowed the crowd to­wards it, but had bare­ly glimpsed the en­chant­ed ceil­ing, which was black and cloudy tonight, when a voice called, ‘Pot­ter! Granger! I want to see you both!’

Har­ry and Hermione turned around, sur­prised. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Trans­fig­ura­tion teach­er and head of Gryffind­or house, was call­ing over the heads of the crowd. She was a stern-​look­ing witch who wore her hair in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed with square spec­ta­cles. Har­ry fought his way over to her with a feel­ing of fore­bod­ing; Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had a way of mak­ing him feel he must have done some­thing wrong.

‘There’s no need to look so wor­ried – I just want a word in my of­fice,’ she told them. ‘Move along there, Weasley.’

Ron stared as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ush­ered Har­ry and Hermione away from the chat­ter­ing crowd; they ac­com­pa­nied her across the En­trance Hall, up the mar­ble stair­case and along a cor­ri­dor.

Once they were in her of­fice, a small room with a large, wel­com­ing fire, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall mo­tioned Har­ry and Hermione to sit down. She set­tled her­self be­hind her desk and said abrupt­ly, ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin sent an owl ahead to say that you were tak­en ill on the train, Pot­ter.’

Be­fore Har­ry could re­ply, there was a soft knock on the door and Madam Pom­frey the ma­tron, came bustling in.

Har­ry felt him­self go­ing red in the face. It was bad enough that he’d passed out, or what­ev­er he had done, with­out ev­ery­one mak­ing all this fuss.

‘I’m fine,’ he said. ‘I don’t need any­thing –’

‘Oh, it’s you, is it?’ said Madam Pom­frey, ig­nor­ing this and bend­ing down to stare close­ly at him. ‘I sup­pose you’ve been do­ing some­thing dan­ger­ous again?’

‘It was a De­men­tor, Pop­py,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

They ex­changed a dark look and Madam Pom­frey clucked dis­ap­prov­ing­ly.

‘Set­ting De­men­tors around a school,’ she mut­tered, push­ing Har­ry’s hair back and feel­ing his fore­head. ‘He won’t be the first one who col­laps­es. Yes, he’s all clam­my. Ter­ri­ble things, they are, and the ef­fect they have on peo­ple who are al­ready del­icate –’

‘I’m not del­icate!’ said Har­ry cross­ly.

‘Of course you’re not,’ said Madam Pom­frey ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly, now tak­ing his pulse.

‘What does he need?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall crisply. ‘Bed rest? Should he per­haps spend tonight in the hos­pi­tal wing?’

‘I’m fine!’ said Har­ry, jump­ing up. The idea of what Dra­co Mal­foy would say if he had to go to the hos­pi­tal wing was tor­ture.

‘Well, he should have some choco­late, at the very least,’ said Madam Pom­frey, who was now try­ing to peer in­to Har­ry’s eyes.

‘I’ve al­ready had some,’ said Har­ry. ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave me some. He gave it to all of us.’

‘Did he, now?’ said Madam Pom­frey ap­prov­ing­ly. ‘So we’ve fi­nal­ly got a De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er who knows his reme­dies.’

‘Are you sure you feel all right, Pot­ter?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply.

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry.

‘Very well. Kind­ly wait out­side while I have a quick word with Miss Granger about her timetable, then we can go down to the feast to­geth­er.’

Har­ry went back in­to the cor­ri­dor with Madam Pom­frey who left for the hos­pi­tal wing, mut­ter­ing to her­self. He on­ly had to wait a few min­utes; then Hermione emerged look­ing very hap­py about some­thing, fol­lowed by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and the three of them made their way back down the mar­ble stair­case to the Great Hall.

It was a sea of point­ed black hats; each of the long house ta­bles was lined with stu­dents, their faces glim­mer­ing by the light of thou­sands of can­dles, which were float­ing over the ta­bles in midair. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, who was a tiny lit­tle wiz­ard with a shock of white hair, was car­ry­ing an an­cient hat and a three-​legged stool out of the hall.

‘Oh,’ said Hermione soft­ly, ‘we’ve missed the Sort­ing!’

New stu­dents at Hog­warts were sort­ed in­to hous­es by try­ing on the Sort­ing Hat, which shout­ed out the house they were best suit­ed to (Gryffind­or, Raven­claw, Huf­flepuff or Slytherin). Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall strode off to­wards her emp­ty seat at the staff ta­ble, and Har­ry and Hermione set off in the oth­er di­rec­tion, as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, to­wards the Gryffind­or ta­ble. Peo­ple looked around at them as they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of them point­ed at Har­ry. Had the sto­ry of him col­laps­ing in front of the De­men­tor trav­elled that fast?

He and Hermione sat down on ei­ther side of Ron, who had saved them seats.

‘What was all that about?’ he mut­tered to Har­ry.

Har­ry start­ed to ex­plain in a whis­per, but at that mo­ment the Head­mas­ter stood up to speak, and he broke off.

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, though very old, al­ways gave an im­pres­sion of great en­er­gy. He had sev­er­al feet of long sil­ver hair and beard, half-​moon spec­ta­cles and an ex­treme­ly crooked nose. He was of­ten de­scribed as the great­est wiz­ard of the age, but that wasn’t why Har­ry re­spect­ed him. You couldn’t help trust­ing Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, and as Har­ry watched him beam­ing around at the stu­dents, he felt re­al­ly calm for the first time since the De­men­tor had en­tered the train com­part­ment.

‘Wel­come!’ said Dum­ble­dore, the can­dle­light shim­mer­ing on his beard. ‘Wel­come to an­oth­er year at Hog­warts! I have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very se­ri­ous, I think it best to get it out of the way be­fore you be­come be­fud­dled by our ex­cel­lent feast …’

Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat and con­tin­ued. ‘As you will all be aware af­ter their search of the Hog­warts Ex­press, our school is present­ly play­ing host to some of the De­men­tors of Azk­aban, who are here on Min­istry of Mag­ic busi­ness.’

He paused, and Har­ry re­mem­bered what Mr Weasley had said about Dum­ble­dore not be­ing hap­py with the De­men­tors guard­ing the school.

‘They are sta­tioned at ev­ery en­trance to the grounds,’ Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, ‘and while they are with us, I must make it plain that no­body is to leave school with­out per­mis­sion. De­men­tors are not to be fooled by tricks or dis­guis­es – or even In­vis­ibil­ity Cloaks,’ he added bland­ly, and Har­ry and Ron glanced at each oth­er. ‘It is not in the na­ture of a De­men­tor to un­der­stand plead­ing or ex­cus­es. I there­fore warn each and ev­ery one of you to give them no rea­son to harm you. I look to the Pre­fects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no stu­dent runs foul of the De­men­tors.’

Per­cy, who was sit­ting a few seats along from Har­ry, puffed out his chest again and stared around im­pres­sive­ly. Dum­ble­dore paused again; he looked very se­ri­ous­ly around the hall, and no­body moved or made a sound.

‘On a hap­pi­er note,’ he con­tin­ued, ‘I am pleased to wel­come two new teach­ers to our ranks this year.

‘First­ly, Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who has kind­ly con­sent­ed to fill the post of De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er.’

There was some scat­tered, rather un­en­thu­si­as­tic, ap­plause. On­ly those who had been in the com­part­ment on the train with Pro­fes­sor Lupin clapped hard, Har­ry among them. Pro­fes­sor Lupin looked par­tic­ular­ly shab­by next to all the oth­er teach­ers in their best robes.

‘Look at Snape!’ Ron hissed in Har­ry’s ear.

Pro­fes­sor Snape, the Po­tions mas­ter, was star­ing along the staff ta­ble at Pro­fes­sor Lupin. It was com­mon knowl­edge that Snape want­ed the De­fence Against the Dark Arts job, but even Har­ry, who hat­ed Snape, was star­tled at the ex­pres­sion twist­ing his thin, sal­low face. It was be­yond anger: it was loathing. Har­ry knew that ex­pres­sion on­ly too well; it was the look Snape wore ev­ery time he set eyes on Har­ry.

‘As to our sec­ond new ap­point­ment,’ Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, as the luke­warm ap­plause for Pro­fes­sor Lupin died away, ‘well, I am sor­ry to tell you that Pro­fes­sor Ket­tle­burn, our Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er, re­tired at the end of last year in or­der to en­joy more time with his re­main­ing limbs. How­ev­er, I am de­light­ed to say that his place will be filled by none oth­er than Rubeus Ha­grid, who has agreed to take on this teach­ing job in ad­di­tion to his game­keep­ing du­ties.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stared at each oth­er, stunned. Then they joined in with the ap­plause, which was tu­mul­tuous at the Gryffind­or ta­ble in par­tic­ular. Har­ry leaned for­ward to see Ha­grid, who was ru­by red in the face and star­ing down at his enor­mous hands, his wide grin hid­den in the tan­gle of his black beard.

‘We should’ve known!’ Ron roared, pound­ing the ta­ble. ‘Who else would have set us a bit­ing book?’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione were the last to stop clap­ping, and as Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore start­ed speak­ing again, they saw that Ha­grid was wip­ing his eyes on the table­cloth.

‘Well, I think that’s ev­ery­thing of im­por­tance,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Let the feast be­gin!’

The gold­en plates and gob­lets be­fore them filled sud­den­ly with food and drink. Har­ry, sud­den­ly ravenous, helped him­self to ev­ery­thing he could reach and be­gan to eat.

It was a de­li­cious feast; the Hall echoed with talk, laugh­ter and the clat­ter of knives and forks. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, how­ev­er, were ea­ger for it to fin­ish so that they could talk to Ha­grid. They knew how much be­ing made a teach­er would mean to him. Ha­grid wasn’t a ful­ly qual­ified wiz­ard; he had been ex­pelled from Hog­warts in his third year, for a crime he had not com­mit­ted. It had been Har­ry, Ron and Hermione who had cleared Ha­grid’s name last year.

At long last, when the last morsels of pump­kin tart had melt­ed from the gold­en plat­ters, Dum­ble­dore gave the word that it was time for them all to go to bed, and they got their chance.

‘Con­grat­ula­tions, Ha­grid!’ Hermione squealed, as they reached the teach­ers’ ta­ble.

‘All down ter you three,’ said Ha­grid, wip­ing his shin­ing face on his nap­kin as he looked up at them. ‘Can’ be­lieve it … great man, Dum­ble­dore … came straight down to me hut af­ter Pro­fes­sor Ket­tle­burn said he’d had enough … it’s what I al­ways want­ed …’

Over­come with emo­tion, he buried his face in his nap­kin, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall shooed them away.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione joined the Gryffind­ors stream­ing up the mar­ble stair­case and, very tired now, along more cor­ri­dors, up more and more stairs, to the hid­den en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er. A large por­trait of a fat la­dy in a pink dress asked them, ‘Pass­word?’

‘Com­ing through, com­ing through!’ Per­cy called from be­hind the crowd. ‘The new pass­word’s For­tu­na Ma­jor!’

‘Oh no,’ said Neville Long­bot­tom sad­ly. He al­ways had trou­ble re­mem­ber­ing the pass­words.

Through the por­trait hole and across the com­mon room, the girls and boys di­vid­ed to­wards their sep­arate stair­cas­es. Har­ry climbed the spi­ral stairs with no thought in his head ex­cept how glad he was to be back. They reached their fa­mil­iar, cir­cu­lar dor­mi­to­ry with its five four-​poster beds and Har­ry, look­ing around, felt he was home at last.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER SIX


Talons and Tea Leaves



When Har­ry, Ron and Hermione en­tered the Great Hall for break­fast next day, the first thing they saw was Dra­co Mal­foy, who seemed to be en­ter­tain­ing a large group of Slytherins with a very fun­ny sto­ry. As they passed, Mal­foy did a ridicu­lous im­pres­sion of a swoon­ing fit and there was a roar of laugh­ter.

‘Ig­nore him,’ said Hermione, who was right be­hind Har­ry. ‘Just ig­nore him, it’s not worth it …’

‘Hey Pot­ter!’ shrieked Pan­sy Parkin­son, a Slytherin girl with a face like a pug. ‘Pot­ter! The De­men­tors are com­ing, Pot­ter! Woooooooo!’

Har­ry dropped in­to a seat at the Gryffind­or ta­ble, next to George Weasley.

‘New third-​year timeta­bles,’ said George, pass­ing them over. ‘What’s up with you, Har­ry?’

‘Mal­foy,’ said Ron, sit­ting down on George’s oth­er side and glar­ing over at the Slytherin ta­ble.

George looked up in time to see Mal­foy pre­tend­ing to faint with ter­ror again.

‘That lit­tle git,’ he said calm­ly ‘He wasn’t so cocky last night when the De­men­tors were down our end of the train. Came run­ning in­to our com­part­ment, didn’t he, Fred?’

‘Near­ly wet him­self,’ said Fred, with a con­temp­tu­ous glance at Mal­foy.

‘I wasn’t too hap­py my­self,’ said George. ‘They’re hor­ri­ble things, those De­men­tors …’

‘Sort of freeze your in­sides, don’t they?’ said Fred.

‘You didn’t pass out, though, did you?’ said Har­ry in a low voice.

‘For­get it, Har­ry’ said George brac­ing­ly. ‘Dad had to go out to Azk­aban one time, re­mem­ber, Fred? And he said it was the worst place he’d ev­er been. He came back all weak and shak­ing … They suck the hap­pi­ness out of a place, De­men­tors. Most of the pris­on­ers go mad in there.’

‘Any­way, we’ll see how hap­py Mal­foy looks af­ter our first Quid­ditch match,’ said Fred. ‘Gryffind­or ver­sus Slytherin, first game of the sea­son, re­mem­ber?’

The on­ly time Har­ry and Mal­foy had faced each oth­er in a Quid­ditch match, Mal­foy had def­inite­ly come off worse. Feel­ing slight­ly more cheer­ful, Har­ry helped him­self to sausages and fried toma­toes.

Hermione was ex­am­in­ing her new timetable.

‘Ooh, good, we’re start­ing some new sub­jects to­day’ she said hap­pi­ly.

‘Hermione,’ said Ron, frown­ing as he looked over her shoul­der, ‘they’ve messed up your timetable. Look – they’ve got you down for about ten sub­jects a day. There isn’t enough time.’

‘I’ll man­age. I’ve fixed it all with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.’

‘But look,’ said Ron, laugh­ing, ‘see this morn­ing? Nine o’clock, Div­ina­tion. And un­der­neath, nine o’clock, Mug­gle Stud­ies. And –’ Ron leaned clos­er to the timetable, dis­be­liev­ing, ‘look – un­der­neath that, Arith­man­cy, nine o’clock. I mean, I know you’re good, Hermione, but no one’s that good. How’re you sup­posed to be in three class­es at once?’

‘Don’t be sil­ly,’ said Hermione short­ly. ‘Of course I won’t be in three class­es at once.’

‘Well, then –’

‘Pass the mar­malade,’ said Hermione.

‘But –’

‘Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my timetable’s a bit full?’ Hermione snapped. ‘I told you, I’ve fixed it all with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.’

Just then, Ha­grid en­tered the Great Hall. He was wear­ing his long mole­skin over­coat and was ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly swing­ing a dead pole­cat from one enor­mous hand.

‘All righ’?’ he said ea­ger­ly, paus­ing on the way to the staff ta­ble. ‘Yer in my firs’ ev­er les­son! Right af­ter lunch! Bin up since five get­tin’ ev­ery­thin’ ready … hope it’s OK … me, a teach­er … hones’ly …’

He grinned broad­ly at them and head­ed off to the staff ta­ble, still swing­ing the pole­cat.

‘Won­der what he’s been get­ting ready?’ said Ron, a note of anx­iety in his voice. The Hall was start­ing to emp­ty as peo­ple head­ed off to­wards their first les­son. Ron checked his timetable.

‘We’d bet­ter go, look, Div­ina­tion’s at the top of North Tow­er. It’ll take us ten min­utes to get there …’

They fin­ished their break­fast hasti­ly, said good­bye to Fred and George and walked back through the hall. As they passed the Slytherin ta­ble, Mal­foy did yet an­oth­er im­pres­sion of a faint­ing fit. The shouts of laugh­ter fol­lowed Har­ry in­to the En­trance Hall.

The jour­ney through the cas­tle to North Tow­er was a long one. Two years at Hog­warts hadn’t taught them ev­ery­thing about the cas­tle, and they had nev­er been in­side North Tow­er be­fore.

‘There’s – got – to – be – a – short – cut,’ Ron pant­ed, as they climbed their sev­enth long stair­case and emerged on an un­fa­mil­iar land­ing, where there was noth­ing but a large paint­ing of a bare stretch of grass hang­ing on the stone wall.

‘I think it’s this way,’ said Hermione, peer­ing down the emp­ty pas­sage to the right.

‘Can’t be,’ said Ron. ‘That’s south. Look, you can see a bit of the lake out of the win­dow …’

Har­ry was watch­ing the paint­ing. A fat, dap­ple-​grey pony had just am­bled on­to the grass and was graz­ing non­cha­lant­ly. Har­ry was used to the sub­jects of Hog­warts paint­ings mov­ing around and leav­ing their frames to vis­it each oth­er, but he al­ways en­joyed watch­ing them. A mo­ment lat­er, a short, squat knight in a suit of ar­mour had clanked in­to the pic­ture af­ter his pony. By the look of the grass stains on his met­al knees, he had just fall­en off.

‘Aha!’ he yelled, see­ing Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘What vil­lains are these that tres­pass up­on my pri­vate lands! Come to scorn at my fall, per­chance? Draw, you knaves, you dogs!’

They watched in as­ton­ish­ment as the lit­tle knight tugged his sword out of its scab­bard and be­gan bran­dish­ing it vi­olent­ly, hop­ping up and down in rage. But the sword was too long for him; a par­tic­ular­ly wild swing made him over­bal­ance, and he land­ed face down in the grass.

‘Are you all right?’ said Har­ry, mov­ing clos­er to the pic­ture.

‘Get back, you scurvy brag­gart! Back, you rogue!’

The knight seized his sword again and used it to push him­self back up, but the blade sank deeply in­to the grass and, though he pulled with all his might, he couldn’t get it out again. Fi­nal­ly he had to flop back down on­to the grass and push up his vi­sor to mop his sweat­ing face.

‘Lis­ten,’ said Har­ry, tak­ing ad­van­tage of the knight’s ex­haus­tion, ‘we’re look­ing for the North Tow­er. You don’t know the way, do you?’

‘A quest!’ The knight’s rage seemed to van­ish in­stant­ly. He clanked to his feet and shout­ed, ‘Come fol­low me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or else shall per­ish brave­ly in the charge!’

He gave the sword an­oth­er fruit­less tug, tried and failed to mount the fat pony, and cried, ‘On foot then, good sirs and gen­tle la­dy! On! On!’

And he ran, clank­ing loud­ly, in­to the left-​hand side of the frame and out of sight.

They hur­ried af­ter him along the cor­ri­dor, fol­low­ing the sound of his ar­mour. Ev­ery now and then they spot­ted him run­ning through a pic­ture ahead.

‘Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!’ yelled the knight, and they saw him reap­pear in front of an alarmed group of wom­en in crino­lines, whose pic­ture hung on the wall of a nar­row, spi­ral stair­case.

Puff­ing loud­ly, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione climbed the tight­ly spi­ralling steps, get­ting dizzi­er and dizzi­er, un­til at last they heard the murmer of voic­es above them, and knew they had reached the class­room.

‘Farewell!’ cried the knight, pop­ping his head in­to a paint­ing of some sin­is­ter-​look­ing monks. ‘Farewell, my com­rades-​in-​arms! If ev­er you have need of no­ble heart and steely sinew, call up­on Sir Cado­gan!’

‘Yeah, we’ll call you,’ mut­tered Ron, as the knight dis­ap­peared, ‘if we ev­er need some­one men­tal.’

They climbed the last few steps and emerged on­to a tiny land­ing, where most of the class was al­ready as­sem­bled. There were no doors off this land­ing; Ron nudged Har­ry and point­ed at the ceil­ing where there was a cir­cu­lar trap door with a brass plaque on it.

‘Sybill Trelawney, Div­ina­tion teach­er’, Har­ry read. ‘How’re we sup­posed to get up there?’

As though in an­swer to his ques­tion, the trap door sud­den­ly opened, and a sil­very lad­der de­scend­ed right at Har­ry’s feet. Ev­ery­one went qui­et.

‘Af­ter you,’ said Ron, grin­ning, so Har­ry climbed the lad­der first.

He emerged in­to the strangest-​look­ing class­room he had ev­er seen. In fact, it didn’t look like a class­room at all; more like a cross be­tween some­one’s at­tic and an old-​fash­ioned teashop. At least twen­ty small, cir­cu­lar ta­bles were crammed in­side it, all sur­round­ed by chintz arm­chairs and fat lit­tle pouffes. Ev­ery­thing was lit with a dim, crim­son light; the cur­tains at the win­dows were all closed, and the many lamps were draped with dark red scarves. It was sti­fling­ly warm, and the fire which was burn­ing un­der the crowd­ed man­tel­piece was giv­ing off a heavy, sick­ly sort of per­fume as it heat­ed a large, cop­per ket­tle. The shelves run­ning around the cir­cu­lar walls were crammed with dusty-​look­ing feath­ers, stubs of can­dles, many packs of tat­tered play­ing cards, count­less sil­very crys­tal balls and a huge ar­ray of teacups.

Ron ap­peared at Har­ry’s shoul­der as the class as­sem­bled around them, all talk­ing in whis­pers.

‘Where is she?’ Ron said.

A voice came sud­den­ly out of the shad­ows, a soft, misty sort of voice.

‘Wel­come,’ it said. ‘How nice to see you in the phys­ical world at last.’

Har­ry’s im­me­di­ate im­pres­sion was of a large, glit­ter­ing in­sect. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney moved in­to the fire­light, and they saw that she was very thin; her large glass­es mag­ni­fied her eyes to sev­er­al times their nat­ural size, and she was draped in a gauzy span­gled shawl. In­nu­mer­able chains and beads hung around her spindly neck, and her arms and hands were en­crust­ed with ban­gles and rings.

‘Sit, my chil­dren, sit,’ she said, and they all climbed awk­ward­ly in­to arm­chairs or sank on­to pouffes. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat them­selves around the same round ta­ble.

‘Wel­come to Div­ina­tion,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who had seat­ed her­self in a winged arm­chair in front of the fire. ‘My name is Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. You may not have seen me be­fore. I find that de­scend­ing too of­ten in­to the hus­tle and bus­tle of the main school clouds my In­ner Eye.’

No­body said any­thing in an­swer to this ex­traor­di­nary pro­nounce­ment. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney del­icate­ly re­ar­ranged her shawl and con­tin­ued, ‘So you have cho­sen to study Div­ina­tion, the most dif­fi­cult of all mag­ical arts. I must warn you at the out­set that if you do not have the Sight, there is very lit­tle I will be able to teach you. Books can take you on­ly so far in this field …’

At these words, both Har­ry and Ron glanced, grin­ning, at Hermione, who looked star­tled at the news that books wouldn’t be much help in this sub­ject.

‘Many witch­es and wiz­ards, tal­ent­ed though they are in the area of loud bangs and smells and sud­den dis­ap­pear­ings, are yet un­able to pen­etrate the veiled mys­ter­ies of the fu­ture,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney went on, her enor­mous, gleam­ing eyes mov­ing from face to ner­vous face. ‘It is a Gift grant­ed to few. You, boy,’ she said sud­den­ly to Neville, who al­most top­pled off his pouffe, ‘is your grand­moth­er well?’

‘I think so,’ said Neville tremu­lous­ly.

‘I wouldn’t be so sure if I were you, dear,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, the fire­light glint­ing on her long emer­ald ear­rings. Neville gulped. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney con­tin­ued placid­ly, ‘We will be cov­er­ing the ba­sic meth­ods of Div­ina­tion this year. The first term will be de­vot­ed to read­ing the tea leaves. Next term we shall progress to palm­istry. By the way, my dear,’ she shot sud­den­ly at Par­vati Patil, ‘be­ware a red-​haired man.’

Par­vati gave a star­tled look at Ron, who was right be­hind her, and edged her chair away from him.

‘In the sum­mer term,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney went on, ‘we shall progress to the crys­tal ball – if we have fin­ished with fire-​omens, that is. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, class­es will be dis­rupt­ed in Febru­ary by a nasty bout of flu. I my­self will lose my voice. And around East­er, one of our num­ber will leave us for ev­er.’

A very tense si­lence fol­lowed this pro­nounce­ment, but Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed un­aware of it.

‘I won­der, dear,’ she said to Laven­der Brown, who was near­est and shrank back in her chair, ‘if you could pass me the largest sil­ver teapot?’

Laven­der, look­ing re­lieved, stood up, took an enor­mous teapot from the shelf and put it down on the ta­ble in front of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

‘Thank you, my dear. In­ci­den­tal­ly, that thing you are dread­ing – it will hap­pen on Fri­day the six­teenth of Oc­to­ber.’

Laven­der trem­bled.

‘Now, I want you all to di­vide in­to pairs. Col­lect a teacup from the shelf, come to me and I will fill it. Then sit down and drink; drink un­til on­ly the dregs re­main. Swill these around the cup three times with the left hand, then turn the cup up­side-​down on its saucer; wait for the last of the tea to drain away, then give your cup to your part­ner to read. You will in­ter­pret the pat­terns us­ing pages five and six of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. I shall move among you, help­ing and in­struct­ing. Oh, and dear –’ she caught Neville by the arm as he made to stand up, ‘af­ter you’ve bro­ken your first cup, would you be so kind as to se­lect one of the blue pat­terned ones? I’m rather at­tached to the pink.’

Sure enough, Neville had no soon­er reached the shelf of teacups when there was a tin­kle of break­ing chi­na. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney swept over to him hold­ing a dust­pan and brush and said, ‘One of the blue ones, then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind … thank you …’

When Har­ry and Ron had had their teacups filled, they went back to their ta­ble and tried to drink the scald­ing tea quick­ly. They swilled the dregs around as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had in­struct­ed, then drained the cups and swapped them.

‘Right,’ said Ron, as they both opened their books at pages five and six. ‘What can you see in mine?’

‘A load of sog­gy brown stuff,’ said Har­ry. The heav­ily per­fumed smoke in the room was mak­ing him feel sleepy and stupid.

‘Broad­en your minds, my dears, and al­low your eyes to see past the mun­dane!’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney cried through the gloom.

Har­ry tried to pull him­self to­geth­er.

‘Right, you’ve got a wonky sort of cross …’ he said, con­sult­ing Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. ‘That means you’re go­ing to have ‘tri­als and suf­fer­ing’ – sor­ry about that – but there’s a thing that could be the sun. Hang on … that means ‘great hap­pi­ness’ … so you’re go­ing to suf­fer but be very hap­py …’

‘You need your In­ner Eye test­ing, if you ask me,’ said Ron, and they both had to sti­fle their laughs as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gazed in their di­rec­tion.

‘My turn …’ Ron peered in­to Har­ry’s teacup, his fore­head wrin­kled with ef­fort. ‘There’s a blob a bit like a bowler hat,’ he said. ‘Maybe you’re go­ing to work for the Min­istry of Mag­ic …’

He turned the teacup the oth­er way up.

‘But this way it looks more like an acorn … what’s that?’ He scanned his copy of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture. ‘‘A wind­fall, un­ex­pect­ed gold.’ Ex­cel­lent, you can lend me some. And there’s a thing here,’ he turned the cup again, ‘that looks like an an­imal. Yeah, if that was its head … it looks like a hip­po … no, a sheep …’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney whirled around as Har­ry let out a snort of laugh­ter.

‘Let me see that, my dear,’ she said re­prov­ing­ly to Ron, sweep­ing over and snatch­ing Har­ry’s cup from him. Ev­ery­one went qui­et to watch.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was star­ing in­to the teacup, ro­tat­ing it an­ti­clock­wise.

‘The fal­con … my dear, you have a dead­ly en­emy.’

‘But ev­ery­one knows that,’ said Hermione in a loud whis­per. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stared at her.

‘Well, they do,’ said Hermione. ‘Ev­ery­body knows about Har­ry and You-​Know-​Who.’

Har­ry and Ron stared at her with a mix­ture of amaze­ment and ad­mi­ra­tion. They had nev­er heard Hermione speak to a teach­er like that be­fore. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney chose not to re­ply. She low­ered her huge eyes to Har­ry’s cup again and con­tin­ued to turn it.

‘The club … an at­tack. Dear, dear, this is not a hap­py cup …’

‘I thought that was a bowler hat,’ said Ron sheep­ish­ly.

‘The skull … dan­ger in your path, my dear …’

Ev­ery­one was star­ing, trans­fixed, at Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who gave the cup a fi­nal turn, gasped, and then screamed.

There was an­oth­er tin­kle of break­ing chi­na; Neville had smashed his sec­ond cup. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sank in­to a va­cant arm­chair, her glit­ter­ing hand at her heart and her eyes closed.

‘My dear boy – my poor dear boy – no – it is kinder not to say – no – don’t ask me …’

‘What is it, Pro­fes­sor?’ said Dean Thomas at once. Ev­ery­one had got to their feet, and slow­ly, they crowd­ed around Har­ry and Ron’s ta­ble, press­ing close to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s chair to get a good look at Har­ry’s cup.

‘My dear,’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s huge eyes opened dra­mat­ical­ly, ‘you have the Grim.’

‘The what?’ said Har­ry.

He could tell that he wasn’t the on­ly one who didn’t un­der­stand; Dean Thomas shrugged at him and Laven­der Brown looked puz­zled, but near­ly ev­ery­body else clapped their hands to their mouths in hor­ror.

‘The Grim, my dear, the Grim!’ cried Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who looked shocked that Har­ry hadn’t un­der­stood. ‘The gi­ant, spec­tral dog that haunts church­yards! My dear boy, it is an omen – the worst omen – of death!’

Har­ry’s stom­ach lurched. That dog on the cov­er of Death Omens in Flour­ish and Blotts – the dog in the shad­ows of Mag­no­lia Cres­cent … Laven­der Brown clapped her hands to her mouth, too. Ev­ery­one was look­ing at Har­ry; ev­ery­one ex­cept Hermione, who had got up and moved around to the back of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s chair.

‘I don’t think it looks like a Grim,’ she said flat­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sur­veyed Hermione with mount­ing dis­like.

‘You’ll for­give me for say­ing so, my dear, but I per­ceive very lit­tle au­ra around you. Very lit­tle re­cep­tiv­ity to the res­onances of the fu­ture.’

Sea­mus Finni­gan was tilt­ing his head from side to side.

‘It looks like a Grim if you do this,’ he said, with his eyes al­most shut, ‘but it looks more like a don­key from here,’ he said, lean­ing to the left.

‘When you’ve all fin­ished de­cid­ing whether I’m go­ing to die or not!’ said Har­ry, tak­ing even him­self by sur­prise. Now no­body seemed to want to look at him.

‘I think we will leave the les­son here for to­day’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in her mist­iest voice. ‘Yes … please pack away your things …’

Silent­ly the class took their teacups back to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, packed away their books and closed their bags. Even Ron was avoid­ing Har­ry’s eyes.

‘Un­til we meet again,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney faint­ly, ‘fair for­tune be yours. Oh, and dear –’ she point­ed at Neville, ‘you’ll be late next time, so mind you work ex­tra hard to catch up.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione de­scend­ed Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s lad­der and the wind­ing stair­case in si­lence, then set off for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s Trans­fig­ura­tion les­son. It took them so long to find her class­room that, ear­ly as they had left Div­ina­tion, they were on­ly just in time.

Har­ry chose a seat right at the back of the room, feel­ing as though he was sit­ting in a very bright spot­light; the rest of the class kept shoot­ing furtive glances at him, as though he was about to drop dead at any mo­ment. He hard­ly heard what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was telling them about An­ima­gi (wiz­ards who could trans­form at will in­to an­imals), and wasn’t even watch­ing when she trans­formed her­self in front of their eyes in­to a tab­by cat with spec­ta­cle mark­ings around her eyes.

‘Re­al­ly, what has got in­to you all to­day?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing back in­to her­self with a faint pop, and star­ing around at them all. ‘Not that it mat­ters, but that’s the first time my trans­for­ma­tion’s not got ap­plause from a class.’

Ev­ery­body’s heads turned to­wards Har­ry again, but no­body spoke. Then Hermione raised her hand.

‘Please, Pro­fes­sor, we’ve just had our first Div­ina­tion class, and we were read­ing the tea leaves, and –’

‘Ah, of course,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, sud­den­ly frown­ing. ‘There is no need to say any more, Miss Granger. Tell me, which of you will be dy­ing this year?’

Ev­ery­one stared at her.

‘Me,’ said Har­ry, fi­nal­ly.

‘I see,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, fix­ing Har­ry with her beady eyes. ‘Then you should know, Pot­ter, that Sybill Trelawney has pre­dict­ed the death of one stu­dent a year since she ar­rived at this school. None of them has died yet. See­ing death omens is her favourite way of greet­ing a new class. If it were not for the fact that I nev­er speak ill of my col­leagues –’ Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall broke off, and they saw that her nos­trils had gone white. She went on, more calm­ly, ‘Div­ina­tion is one of the most im­pre­cise branch­es of mag­ic. I shall not con­ceal from you that I have very lit­tle pa­tience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney …’

She stopped again, and then said, in a very mat­ter-​of-​fact tone, ‘You look in ex­cel­lent health to me, Pot­ter, so you will ex­cuse me if I don’t let you off home­work to­day. I as­sure you that if you die, you need not hand it in.’

Hermione laughed. Har­ry felt a bit bet­ter. It was hard­er to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and be­fud­dling per­fume of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s class­room. Not ev­ery­one was con­vinced, how­ev­er. Ron still looked wor­ried, and Laven­der whis­pered, ‘But what about Neville’s cup?’

When the Trans­fig­ura­tion class had fin­ished, they joined the crowd thun­der­ing to­wards the Great Hall for lunch.

‘Ron, cheer up,’ said Hermione, push­ing a dish of stew to­wards him. ‘You heard what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said.’ Ron spooned stew on­to his plate and picked up his fork but didn’t start.

‘Har­ry,’ he said, in a low, se­ri­ous voice, ‘you haven’t seen a great black dog any­where, have you?’

‘Yeah, I have,’ said Har­ry. ‘I saw one the night I left the Durs­leys.’

Ron let his fork fall with a clat­ter.

‘Prob­ably a stray’ said Hermione calm­ly.

Ron looked at Hermione as though she had gone mad.

‘Hermione, if Har­ry’s seen a Grim, that’s – that’s bad,’ he said. ‘My – my Un­cle Bil­ius saw one and – and he died twen­ty-​four hours lat­er!’

‘Co­in­ci­dence,’ said Hermione air­ily, pour­ing her­self some pump­kin juice.

‘You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about!’ said Ron, start­ing to get an­gry. ‘Grims scare the liv­ing day­lights out of most wiz­ards!’

‘There you are, then,’ said Hermione in a su­pe­ri­or tone. ‘They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim’s not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Har­ry’s still with us be­cause he’s not stupid enough to see one and think, right, well, I’d bet­ter pop my clogs then!’

Ron mouthed word­less­ly at Hermione, who opened her bag, took out her new Arith­man­cy book and propped it open against the juice jug.

‘I think Div­ina­tion seems very wool­ly’ she said, search­ing for her page. ‘A lot of guess­work, if you ask me.’

‘There was noth­ing wool­ly about the Grim in that cup!’ said Ron hot­ly.

‘You didn’t seem quite so con­fi­dent when you were telling Har­ry it was a sheep,’ said Hermione cool­ly.

‘Pro­fes­sor Trelawney said you didn’t have the right au­ra! You just don’t like be­ing rub­bish at some­thing for a change!’

He had touched a nerve. Hermione slammed her Arith­man­cy book down on the ta­ble so hard that bits of meat and car­rot flew ev­ery­where.

‘If be­ing good at Div­ina­tion means I have to pre­tend to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I’m not sure I’ll be study­ing it much longer! That les­son was ab­so­lute rub­bish com­pared to my Arith­man­cy class!’

She snatched up her bag and stalked away.

Ron frowned af­ter her.

‘What’s she talk­ing about?’ he said to Har­ry. ‘She hasn’t been to an Arith­man­cy class yet.’

*

Har­ry was pleased to get out of the cas­tle af­ter lunch. Yes­ter­day’s rain had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale grey and the grass was springy and damp un­der­foot as they set off for their first ev­er Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class.

Ron and Hermione weren’t speak­ing to each oth­er. Har­ry walked be­side them in si­lence as they went down the slop­ing lawns to Ha­grid’s hut on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est. It was on­ly when he spot­ted three on­ly-​too-​fa­mil­iar backs ahead of them that he re­alised they must be hav­ing these lessons with the Slytherins. Mal­foy was talk­ing an­imat­ed­ly to Crabbe and Goyle, who were chortling. Har­ry was quite sure he knew what they were talk­ing about.

Ha­grid was wait­ing for his class at the door of his hut. He stood in his mole­skin over­coat, with Fang the boarhound at his heels, look­ing im­pa­tient to start.

‘C’mon, now, get a move on!’ he called, as the class ap­proached. ‘Got a re­al treat for yeh to­day! Great les­son comin’ up! Ev­ery­one here? Right, fol­low me!’

For one nasty mo­ment, Har­ry thought that Ha­grid was go­ing to lead them in­to the For­est; Har­ry had had enough un­pleas­ant ex­pe­ri­ences in there to last him a life­time. How­ev­er, Ha­grid strolled off around the edge of the trees, and five min­utes lat­er, they found them­selves out­side a kind of pad­dock. There was noth­ing in there.

‘Ev­ery­one gath­er round the fence here!’ he called. ‘That’s it – make sure yeh can see. Now, firs’ thing yeh’ll want ter do is open yer books –’

‘How?’ said the cold, drawl­ing voice of Dra­co Mal­foy.

‘Eh?’ said Ha­grid.

‘How do we open our books?’ Mal­foy re­peat­ed. He took out his copy of The Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters, which he had bound shut with a length of rope. Oth­er peo­ple took theirs out, too; some, like Har­ry, had belt­ed their book shut; oth­ers had crammed them in­side tight bags or clamped them to­geth­er with bull­clips.

‘Hasn’ – hasn’ any­one bin able ter open their books?’ said Ha­grid, look­ing crest­fall­en.

The class all shook their heads.

‘Yeh’ve got ter stroke ’em,’ said Ha­grid, as though this was the most ob­vi­ous thing in the world. ‘Look …’

He took Hermione’s copy and ripped off the Spel­lotape that bound it. The book tried to bite, but Ha­grid ran a gi­ant fore­fin­ger down its spine, and the book shiv­ered, and then fell open and lay qui­et in his hand.

‘Oh, how sil­ly we’ve all been!’ Mal­foy sneered. ‘We should have stroked them! Why didn’t we guess!’

‘I … I thought they were fun­ny,’ Ha­grid said un­cer­tain­ly to Hermione.

‘Oh, tremen­dous­ly fun­ny!’ said Mal­foy. ‘Re­al­ly wit­ty, giv­ing us books that try and rip our hands off!’

‘Shut up, Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry qui­et­ly. Ha­grid was look­ing down­cast and Har­ry want­ed Ha­grid’s first les­son to be a suc­cess.

‘Righ’ then,’ said Ha­grid, who seemed to have lost his thread, ‘so … so yeh’ve got yer books an’ … an’ … now yeh need the Mag­ical Crea­tures. Yeah. So I’ll go an’ get ’em. Hang on …’

He strode away from them in­to the For­est and out of sight.

‘God, this place is go­ing to the dogs,’ said Mal­foy loud­ly. ‘That oaf teach­ing class­es, my fa­ther’ll have a fit when I tell him –’

‘Shut up, Mal­foy’ Har­ry re­peat­ed.

‘Care­ful, Pot­ter, there’s a De­men­tor be­hind you –’

‘Oooooooh!’ squealed Laven­der Brown, point­ing to­wards the op­po­site side of the pad­dock.

Trot­ting to­wards them were a dozen of the most bizarre crea­tures Har­ry had ev­er seen. They had the bod­ies, hind legs and tails of hors­es, but the front legs, wings and heads of what seemed to be gi­ant ea­gles, with cru­el, steel-​coloured beaks and large, bril­liant­ly or­ange eyes. The talons on their front legs were half a foot long and dead­ly-​look­ing. Each of the beasts had a thick leather col­lar around its neck, which was at­tached to a long chain, and the ends of all of these were held in the vast hands of Ha­grid, who came jog­ging in­to the pad­dock be­hind the crea­tures.

‘Gee up, there!’ he roared, shak­ing the chains and urg­ing the crea­tures to­wards the fence where the class stood. Ev­ery­one drew back slight­ly as Ha­grid reached them and teth­ered the crea­tures to the fence.

‘Hip­pogriffs!’ Ha­grid roared hap­pi­ly, wav­ing a hand at them. ‘Beau’iful, aren’ they?’

Har­ry could sort of see what Ha­grid meant. Once you had got over the first shock of see­ing some­thing that was half horse, half bird, you start­ed to ap­pre­ci­ate the Hip­pogriffs’ gleam­ing coats, chang­ing smooth­ly from feath­er to hair, each of them a dif­fer­ent colour: stormy grey, bronze, a pink­ish roan, gleam­ing chest­nut and inky black.

‘So,’ said Ha­grid, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er and beam­ing around, ‘if yeh wan’ ter come a bit near­er …’

No one seemed to want to. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, how­ev­er, ap­proached the fence cau­tious­ly.

‘Now, firs’ thing yeh got­ta know abou’ Hip­pogriffs is they’re proud,’ said Ha­grid. ‘Eas­ily of­fend­ed, Hip­pogriffs are. Don’t nev­er in­sult one, ’cause it might be the last thing yeh do.’

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle weren’t lis­ten­ing; they were talk­ing in an un­der­tone and Har­ry had a nasty feel­ing they were plot­ting how best to dis­rupt the les­son.

‘Yeh al­ways wait fer the Hip­pogriff ter make the firs’ move,’ Ha­grid con­tin­ued. ‘It’s po­lite, see? Yeh walk to­wards him, and yeh bow, an’ yeh wait. If he bows back, yeh’re al­lowed ter touch him. If he doesn’ bow, then get away from him sharpish, ’cause those talons hurt.’

‘Right – who wants ter go first?’

Most of the class backed fur­ther away in an­swer. Even Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had mis­giv­ings. The Hip­pogriffs were toss­ing their fierce heads and flex­ing their pow­er­ful wings; they didn’t seem to like be­ing teth­ered like this.

‘No one?’ said Ha­grid, with a plead­ing look.

‘I’ll do it,’ said Har­ry.

There was an in­take of breath from be­hind him and both Laven­der and Par­vati whis­pered, ‘Oooh, no, Har­ry, re­mem­ber your tea leaves!’

Har­ry ig­nored them. He climbed over the pad­dock fence.

‘Good man, Har­ry!’ roared Ha­grid. ‘Right then – let’s see how yeh get on with Buck­beak.’

He un­tied one of the chains, pulled the grey Hip­pogriff away from his fel­lows and slipped off his leather col­lar. The class on the oth­er side of the pad­dock seemed to be hold­ing its breath. Mal­foy’s eyes were nar­rowed ma­li­cious­ly.

‘Easy now, Har­ry,’ said Ha­grid qui­et­ly. ‘Yeh’ve got eye con­tact, now try not ter blink – Hip­pogriffs don’ trust yeh if yen blink too much …’

Har­ry’s eyes im­me­di­ate­ly be­gan to wa­ter, but he didn’t shut them. Buck­beak had turned his great, sharp head, and was star­ing at Har­ry with one fierce or­ange eye.

‘Tha’s it,’ said Ha­grid. ‘Tha’s it, Har­ry … now, bow …’

Har­ry didn’t feel much like ex­pos­ing the back of his neck to Buck­beak, but he did as he was told. He gave a short bow and then looked up.

The Hip­pogriff was still star­ing haugh­ti­ly at him. It didn’t move.

‘Ah,’ said Ha­grid, sound­ing wor­ried. ‘Right – back away, now, Har­ry, easy does it –’

But then, to Har­ry’s enor­mous sur­prise, the Hip­pogriff sud­den­ly bent his scaly front knees, and sank in­to what was an un­mis­take­able bow.

‘Well done, Har­ry!’ said Ha­grid, ec­stat­ic. ‘Right – yeh can touch him! Pat his beak, go on!’

Feel­ing that a bet­ter re­ward would have been to back away, Har­ry moved slow­ly to­wards the Hip­pogriff and reached out to­wards him. He pat­ted the beak sev­er­al times and the Hip­pogriff closed his eyes lazi­ly, as though en­joy­ing it.

The class broke in­to ap­plause, all ex­cept for Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle, who were look­ing deeply dis­ap­point­ed.

‘Righ’ then, Har­ry,’ said Ha­grid, ‘I reck­on he migh’ let yeh ride him!’

This was more than Har­ry had bar­gained for. He was used to a broom­stick; but he wasn’t sure a Hip­pogriff would be quite the same.

‘Yeh climb up there, jus’ be­hind the wing joint,’ said Ha­grid, ‘an’ mind yeh don’ pull any of his feath­ers out, he won’ like that …’

Har­ry put his foot on the top of Buck­beak’s wing and hoist­ed him­self on­to his back. Buck­beak stood up. Har­ry wasn’t sure where to hold on; ev­ery­thing in front of him was cov­ered in feath­ers.

‘Go on, then!’ roared Ha­grid, slap­ping the Hip­pogriffs hindquar­ters.

With­out warn­ing, twelve-​foot wings flapped open on ei­ther side of Har­ry; he just had time to seize the Hip­pogriff around the neck be­fore he was soar­ing up­wards. It was noth­ing like a broom­stick, and Har­ry knew which one he pre­ferred; the Hip­pogriff’s wings were beat­ing un­com­fort­ably on ei­ther side of him, catch­ing him un­der his legs and mak­ing him feel he was about to be thrown off; the glossy feath­ers slipped un­der his fin­gers and he didn’t dare get a stronger grip; in­stead of the smooth ac­tion of his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, he now felt him­self rock­ing back­wards and for­wards as the hindquar­ters of the Hip­pogriff rose and fell with his wings.

Buck­beak flew him once around the pad­dock and then head­ed back to the ground; this was the bit Har­ry had been dread­ing; he leaned back as the smooth neck low­ered, feel­ing he was go­ing to slip off over the beak; then he felt a heavy thud as the four ill-​as­sort­ed feet hit the ground, and just man­aged to hold on and push him­self straight again.

‘Good work, Har­ry!’ roared Ha­grid, as ev­ery­one ex­cept Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle cheered. ‘OK, who else wants a go?’

Em­bold­ened by Har­ry’s suc­cess, the rest of the class climbed cau­tious­ly in­to the pad­dock. Ha­grid un­tied the Hip­pogriffs one by one, and soon peo­ple were bow­ing ner­vous­ly, all over the pad­dock. Neville ran re­peat­ed­ly back­wards from his, which didn’t seem to want to bend its knees. Ron and Hermione prac­tised on the chest­nut, while Har­ry watched.

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle had tak­en over Buck­beak. He had bowed to Mal­foy, who was now pat­ting his beak, look­ing dis­dain­ful.

‘This is very easy,’ Mal­foy drawled, loud enough for Har­ry to hear him. ‘I knew it must have been, if Pot­ter could do it … I bet you’re not dan­ger­ous at all, are you?’ he said to the Hip­pogriff. ‘Are you, you ug­ly great brute?’

It hap­pened in a flash of steely talons; Mal­foy let out a high-​pitched scream and next mo­ment, Ha­grid was wrestling Buck­beak back in­to his col­lar as he strained to get at Mal­foy, who lay curled in the grass, blood blos­som­ing over his robes.

‘I’m dy­ing!’ Mal­foy yelled, as the class pan­icked. ‘I’m dy­ing, look at me! It’s killed me!’

‘Yer not dyin’!’ said Ha­grid, who had gone very white. ‘Some­one help me – got­ta get him out­ta here –’

Hermione ran to open the gate while Ha­grid lift­ed Mal­foy eas­ily. As they passed, Har­ry saw that there was a long, deep gash in Mal­foy’s arm; blood splat­tered the grass and Ha­grid ran with him, up the slope to­wards the cas­tle.

Very shak­en, the Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class fol­lowed at a walk. The Slytherins were all shout­ing about Ha­grid.

‘They should sack him straight away!’ said Pan­sy Parkin­son, who was in tears.

‘It was Mal­foy’s fault!’ snapped Dean Thomas. Crabbe and Goyle flexed their mus­cles threat­en­ing­ly.

They all climbed the stone steps in­to the de­sert­ed En­trance Hall.

‘I’m go­ing to see if he’s OK!’ said Pan­sy, and they all watched her run up the mar­ble stair­case. The Slytherins, still mut­ter­ing about Ha­grid, head­ed away in the di­rec­tion of their dun­geon com­mon room; Har­ry, Ron and Hermione pro­ceed­ed up­stairs to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

‘D’you think he’ll be all right?’ said Hermione ner­vous­ly.

‘’Course he will, Madam Pom­frey can mend cuts in about a sec­ond,’ said Har­ry, who had had far worse in­juries mend­ed mag­ical­ly by the ma­tron.

‘That was a re­al­ly bad thing to hap­pen in Ha­grid’s first class, though, wasn’t it?’ said Ron, look­ing wor­ried. ‘Trust Mal­foy to mess things up for him …’

They were among the first to reach the Great Hall at din­ner-​time, hop­ing to see Ha­grid, but he wasn’t there.

‘They wouldn’t sack him, would they?’ said Hermione anx­ious­ly, not touch­ing her steak-​and-​kid­ney pud­ding.

‘They’d bet­ter not,’ said Ron, who wasn’t eat­ing ei­ther.

Har­ry was watch­ing the Slytherin ta­ble. A large group in­clud­ing Crabbe and Goyle were hud­dled to­geth­er, deep in con­ver­sa­tion. Har­ry was sure they were cook­ing up their own ver­sion of how Mal­foy had got in­jured.

‘Well, you can’t say it wasn’t an in­ter­est­ing first day back,’ said Ron gloomi­ly.

They went up to the crowd­ed Gryffind­or com­mon room af­ter din­ner and tried to do the home­work Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had set them, but all three of them kept break­ing off and glanc­ing out of the tow­er win­dow.

‘There’s a light on in Ha­grid’s win­dow,’ Har­ry said sud­den­ly.

Ron looked at his watch.

‘If we hur­ried, we could go down and see him, it’s still quite ear­ly …’

‘I don’t know,’ Hermione said slow­ly, and Har­ry saw her glance at him.

‘I’m al­lowed to walk across the grounds,’ he said point­ed­ly. ‘Sir­ius Black hasn’t got past the De­men­tors here, has he?’

So they put their things away and head­ed out of the por­trait hole, glad not to meet any­body on their way to the front doors, as they weren’t en­tire­ly sure they were sup­posed to be out.

The grass was still wet and looked al­most black in the twi­light. When they reached Ha­grid’s hut, they knocked, and a voice growled, ‘C’min.’

Ha­grid was sit­ting in his shirt-​sleeves at his scrubbed wood­en ta­ble; his boarhound, Fang, had his head in Ha­grid’s lap. One look told them that Ha­grid had been drink­ing a lot; there was a pewter tankard al­most as a big as a buck­et in front of him, and he seemed to be hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty in get­ting them in­to fo­cus.

‘’Spect it’s a record,’ he said thick­ly, when he recog­nised them. ‘Don’ reck­on they’ve ev­er had a teach­er who on’y last­ed a day be­fore.’

‘You haven’t been sacked, Ha­grid!’ gasped Hermione.

‘Not yet,’ said Ha­grid mis­er­ably, tak­ing a huge gulp of what­ev­er was in the tankard. ‘But ’son­ly a mat­ter o’ time, i’n’t it, af­ter Mal­foy …’

‘How is he?’ said Ron, as they all sat down. ‘It wasn’t se­ri­ous, was it?’

‘Madam Pom­frey fixed him best she could,’ said Ha­grid dul­ly, ‘but he’s sayin’ it’s still agony … cov­ered in ban­dages … moanin’ …’

‘He’s fak­ing it,’ said Har­ry at once. ‘Madam Pom­frey can mend any­thing. She re­grew half my bones last year. Trust Mal­foy to milk it for all it’s worth.’

‘School gov’nors have bin told, o’ course,’ said Ha­grid mis­er­ably. ‘They reck­on I start­ed too big. Shoul­da left Hip­pogriffs fer lat­er … done Flob­ber­worms or sum­mat … jus’ thought it’d make a good firs’ les­son … s’all my fault …’

‘It’s all Mal­foy’s fault, Ha­grid!’ said Hermione earnest­ly.

‘We’re wit­ness­es,’ said Har­ry. ‘You said Hip­pogriffs at­tack if you in­sult them. It’s Mal­foy’s prob­lem he wasn’t lis­ten­ing. We’ll tell Dum­ble­dore what re­al­ly hap­pened.’

‘Yeah, don’t wor­ry, Ha­grid, we’ll back you up,’ said Ron.

Tears leaked out of the crin­kled cor­ners of Ha­grid’s bee­tle-​black eyes. He grabbed both Har­ry and Ron and pulled them in­to a bone-​break­ing hug.

‘I think you’ve had enough to drink, Ha­grid,’ said Hermione firm­ly. She took the tankard from the ta­ble and went out­side to emp­ty it.

‘Ar, maybe she’s right,’ said Ha­grid, let­ting go of Har­ry and Ron, who both stag­gered away, rub­bing their ribs. Ha­grid heaved him­self out of his chair and fol­lowed Hermione un­steadi­ly out­side. They heard a loud splash.

‘What’s he done?’ said Har­ry ner­vous­ly, as Hermione came back in with the emp­ty tankard.

‘Stuck his head in the wa­ter bar­rel,’ said Hermione, putting the tankard away.

Ha­grid came back, his long hair and beard sop­ping wet, wip­ing the wa­ter out of his eyes.

‘Tha’s bet­ter,’ he said, shak­ing his head like a dog and drench­ing them all. ‘Lis­ten, it was good of yeh ter come an’ see me, I re­al­ly –’

Ha­grid stopped dead, star­ing at Har­ry as though he’d on­ly just re­alised he was there.

‘WHAT D’YEH THINK YOU’RE DOIN’, EH?’ he roared, so sud­den­ly that they jumped a foot in the air. ‘YEH’RE NOT TO GO WAN­DERIN’ AROUND AF­TER DARK, HAR­RY! AN’ YOU TWO! LET­TIN’ HIM!’

Ha­grid strode over to Har­ry, grabbed his arm and pulled him to the door.

‘C’mon!’ Ha­grid said an­gri­ly. ‘I’m takin’ yer all back up ter school, an’ don’ let me catch yeh walkin’ down ter see me af­ter dark again. I’m not worth that!’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER SEVEN


The Bog­gart in the Wardrobe



Mal­foy didn’t reap­pear in class­es un­til late on Thurs­day morn­ing, when the Slytherins and Gryffind­ors were halfway through dou­ble Po­tions. He swag­gered in­to the dun­geon, his right arm cov­ered in ban­dages and bound up in a sling, act­ing, in Har­ry’s opin­ion, as though he was the hero­ic sur­vivor of some dread­ful bat­tle.

‘How is it, Dra­co?’ sim­pered Pan­sy Parkin­son. ‘Does it hurt much?’

‘Yeah,’ said Mal­foy, putting on a brave sort of gri­mace. But Har­ry saw him wink at Crabbe and Goyle when Pan­sy had looked away.

‘Set­tle down, set­tle down,’ said Pro­fes­sor Snape idly.

Har­ry and Ron scowled at each oth­er; Snape wouldn’t have said ‘set­tle down’ if they’d walked in late, he’d have giv­en them de­ten­tion. But Mal­foy had al­ways been able to get away with any­thing in Snape’s class­es; Snape was Head of Slytherin house, and gen­er­al­ly favoured his own stu­dents be­fore all oth­ers.

They were mak­ing a new po­tion to­day, a Shrink­ing So­lu­tion. Mal­foy set up his caul­dron right next to Har­ry and Ron, so that they were prepar­ing their in­gre­di­ents on the same ta­ble.

‘Sir,’ Mal­foy called, ‘sir, I’ll need help cut­ting up these daisy roots, be­cause of my arm –’

‘Weasley, cut up Mal­foy’s roots for him,’ said Snape, with­out look­ing up.

Ron went brick red.

‘There’s noth­ing wrong with your arm,’ he hissed at Mal­foy.

Mal­foy smirked across the ta­ble.

‘Weasley, you heard Pro­fes­sor Snape, cut up these roots.’

Ron seized his knife, pulled Mal­foy’s roots to­wards him and be­gan to chop them rough­ly, so that they were all dif­fer­ent sizes.

‘Pro­fes­sor,’ drawled Mal­foy, ‘Weasley’s mu­ti­lat­ing my roots, sir.’

Snape ap­proached their ta­ble, stared down his hooked nose at the roots, then gave Ron an un­pleas­ant smile from be­neath his long, greasy black hair.

‘Change roots with Mal­foy, Weasley.’

‘But sir –!’

Ron had spent the last quar­ter of an hour care­ful­ly shred­ding his own roots in­to ex­act­ly equal pieces.

‘Now,’ said Snape in his most dan­ger­ous voice.

Ron shoved his own beau­ti­ful­ly cut roots across the ta­ble at Mal­foy, then took up the knife again.

‘And, sir, I’ll need this Shriv­elfig skinned,’ said Mal­foy, his voice full of ma­li­cious laugh­ter.

‘Pot­ter, you can skin Mal­foy’s Shriv­elfig,’ said Snape, giv­ing Har­ry the look of loathing he al­ways re­served just for him.

Har­ry took Mal­foy’s Shriv­elfig as Ron set about try­ing to re­pair the dam­age to the roots he now had to use. Har­ry skinned the Shriv­elfig as fast as he could and flung it back across the ta­ble at Mal­foy with­out speak­ing. Mal­foy was smirk­ing more broad­ly than ev­er.

‘Seen your pal Ha­grid late­ly?’ he asked them qui­et­ly.

‘None of your busi­ness,’ said Ron jerk­ily, with­out look­ing up.

‘I’m afraid he won’t be a teach­er much longer,’ said Mal­foy, in a tone of mock sor­row. ‘Fa­ther’s not very hap­py about my in­jury –’

‘Keep talk­ing, Mal­foy, and I’ll give you a re­al in­jury,’ snarled Ron.

‘– he’s com­plained to the school gov­er­nors. And to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Fa­ther’s got a lot of in­flu­ence, you know. And a last­ing in­jury like this –’ he gave a huge, fake sigh, ‘who knows if my arm’ll ev­er be the same again?’

‘So that’s why you’re putting it on,’ said Har­ry, ac­ci­den­tal­ly be­head­ing a dead cater­pil­lar be­cause his hand was shak­ing in anger. ‘To try and get Ha­grid sacked.’

‘Well,’ said Mal­foy, low­er­ing his voice to a whis­per, ‘part­ly, Pot­ter. But there are oth­er ben­efits, too. Weasley, slice my cater­pil­lars for me.’

A few caul­drons away, Neville was in trou­ble. Neville reg­ular­ly went to pieces in Po­tions lessons; it was his worst sub­ject, and his great fear of Pro­fes­sor Snape made things ten times worse. His po­tion, which was sup­posed to be a bright, acid green, had turned –

‘Or­ange, Long­bot­tom,’ said Snape, ladling some up and al­low­ing it to splash back in­to the caul­dron, so that ev­ery­one could see. ‘Or­ange. Tell me, boy, does any­thing pen­etrate that thick skull of yours? Didn’t you hear me say, quite clear­ly, that on­ly one rat spleen was need­ed? Didn’t I state plain­ly that a dash of leech juice would suf­fice? What do I have to do to make you un­der­stand, Long­bot­tom?’

Neville was pink and trem­bling. He looked as though he was on the verge of tears.

‘Please, sir,’ said Hermione, ‘please, I could help Neville put it right –’

‘I don’t re­mem­ber ask­ing you to show off, Miss Granger,’ said Snape cold­ly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. ‘Long­bot­tom, at the end of this les­son we will feed a few drops of this po­tion to your toad and see what hap­pens. Per­haps that will en­cour­age you to do it prop­er­ly.’

Snape moved away, leav­ing Neville breath­less with fear.

‘Help me!’ he moaned to Hermione.

‘Hey, Har­ry,’ said Sea­mus Finni­gan, lean­ing over to bor­row Har­ry’s brass scales, ‘have you heard? Dai­ly Prophet this morn­ing – they reck­on Sir­ius Black’s been sight­ed.’

‘Where?’ said Har­ry and Ron quick­ly. On the oth­er side of the ta­ble, Mal­foy looked up, lis­ten­ing close­ly.

‘Not too far from here,’ said Sea­mus, who looked ex­cit­ed. ‘It was a Mug­gle who saw him. ’Course, she didn’t re­al­ly un­der­stand. The Mug­gles think he’s just an or­di­nary crim­inal, don’t they? So she ’phoned the tele­phone hot­line. By the time the Min­istry of Mag­ic got there, he was gone.’

‘Not too far from here …’ Ron re­peat­ed, look­ing sig­nif­icant­ly at Har­ry. He turned around and saw Mal­foy watch­ing close­ly. ‘What, Mal­foy? Need some­thing else skin­ning?’

But Mal­foy’s eyes were shin­ing malev­olent­ly, and they were fixed on Har­ry. He leaned across the ta­ble.

‘Think­ing of try­ing to catch Black sin­gle-​hand­ed, Pot­ter?’

‘Yeah, that’s right,’ said Har­ry offhand­ed­ly.

Mal­foy’s thin mouth was curv­ing in a mean smile.

‘Of course, if it was me,’ he said qui­et­ly, ‘I’d have done some­thing be­fore now. I wouldn’t be stay­ing in school like a good boy, I’d be out there look­ing for him.’

‘What are you talk­ing about, Mal­foy?’ said Ron rough­ly.

‘Don’t you know, Pot­ter?’ breathed Mal­foy, his pale eyes nar­rowed.

‘Know what?’

Mal­foy let out a low, sneer­ing laugh.

‘Maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,’ he said. ‘Want to leave it to the De­men­tors, do you? But if it was me, I’d want re­venge. I’d hunt him down my­self.’

‘What are you talk­ing about?’ said Har­ry an­gri­ly, but at that mo­ment Snape called, ‘You should have fin­ished adding your in­gre­di­ents by now. This po­tion needs to stew be­fore it can be drunk; clear away while it sim­mers and then we’ll test Long­bot­tom’s …’

Crabbe and Goyle laughed open­ly, watch­ing Neville sweat as he stirred his po­tion fever­ish­ly. Hermione was mut­ter­ing in­struc­tions to him out of the cor­ner of her mouth, so that Snape wouldn’t see. Har­ry and Ron packed away their un­used in­gre­di­ents and went to wash their hands and la­dles in the stone basin in the cor­ner.

‘What did Mal­foy mean?’ Har­ry mut­tered to Ron, as he stuck his hands un­der the icy jet that poured from a gar­goyle’s mouth. ‘Why would I want re­venge on Black? He hasn’t done any­thing to me – yet.’

‘He’s mak­ing it up,’ said Ron, sav­age­ly, ‘he’s try­ing to make you do some­thing stupid …’

The end of the les­son in sight, Snape strode over to Neville, who was cow­er­ing by his caul­dron.

‘Ev­ery­one gath­er round,’ said Snape, his black eyes glit­ter­ing, ‘and watch what hap­pens to Long­bot­tom’s toad. If he has man­aged to pro­duce a Shrink­ing So­lu­tion, it will shrink to a tad­pole. If, as I don’t doubt, he has done it wrong, his toad is like­ly to be poi­soned.’

The Gryffind­ors watched fear­ful­ly. The Slytherins looked ex­cit­ed. Snape picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand, and dipped a small spoon in­to Neville’s po­tion, which was now green. He trick­led a few drops down Trevor’s throat.

There was a mo­ment of hushed si­lence, in which Trevor gulped; then there was a small pop, and Trevor the tad­pole was wrig­gling in Snape’s palm.

The Gryffind­ors burst in­to ap­plause. Snape, look­ing sour, pulled a small bot­tle from the pock­et of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor and he reap­peared sud­den­ly, ful­ly grown.

‘Five points from Gryffind­or,’ said Snape, which wiped the smiles from ev­ery face. ‘I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dis­missed.’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione climbed the steps to the En­trance Hall. Har­ry was still think­ing about what Mal­foy had said, while Ron was seething about Snape.

‘Five points from Gryffind­or be­cause the po­tion was all right! Why didn’t you lie, Hermione? You should’ve said Neville did it all by him­self!’

Hermione didn’t an­swer. Ron looked around.

‘Where is she?’

Har­ry turned, too. They were at the top of the steps now, watch­ing the rest of the class pass them, head­ing for the Great Hall and lunch.

‘She was right be­hind us,’ said Ron, frown­ing.

Mal­foy passed them, walk­ing be­tween Crabbe and Goyle. He smirked at Har­ry and dis­ap­peared.

‘There she is,’ said Har­ry.

Hermione was pant­ing slight­ly, hur­ry­ing up the stairs; one hand was clutch­ing her bag, the oth­er seemed to be tuck­ing some­thing down the front of her robes.

‘How did you do that?’ said Ron.

‘What?’ said Hermione, join­ing them.

‘One minute you were right be­hind us, and next mo­ment, you were back at the bot­tom of the stairs again.’

‘What?’ Hermione looked slight­ly con­fused. ‘Oh – I had to go back for some­thing. Oh, no …’

A seam had split on Hermione’s bag. Har­ry wasn’t sur­prised; he could see that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

‘Why are you car­ry­ing all these around with you?’ Ron asked her.

‘You know how many sub­jects I’m tak­ing,’ said Hermione breath­less­ly. ‘Couldn’t hold these for me, could you?’

‘But –’ Ron was turn­ing over the books she had hand­ed him, look­ing at the cov­ers – ‘you haven’t got any of these sub­jects to­day. It’s on­ly De­fence Against the Dark Arts this af­ter­noon.’

‘Oh, yes,’ said Hermione vague­ly, but she packed all the books back in­to her bag just the same. ‘I hope there’s some­thing good for lunch, I’m starv­ing,’ she added, and she marched off to­wards the Great Hall.

‘D’you get the feel­ing Hermione’s not telling us some­thing?’ Ron asked Har­ry.

*

Pro­fes­sor Lupin wasn’t there when they ar­rived at his first De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son. They all sat down, took out their books, quills and parch­ment, and were talk­ing when he fi­nal­ly en­tered the room. Lupin smiled vague­ly and placed his tat­ty old brief­case on the teach­er’s desk. He was as shab­by as ev­er but looked health­ier than he had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals.

‘Good af­ter­noon,’ he said. ‘Would you please put all your books back in your bags. To­day’s will be a prac­ti­cal les­son. You will on­ly need your wands.’

A few cu­ri­ous looks were ex­changed as the class put away their books. They had nev­er had a prac­ti­cal De­fence Against the Dark Arts be­fore, un­less you count­ed the mem­orable class last year when their old teach­er had brought a cage­ful of pix­ies to class and set them loose.

‘Right then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, when ev­ery­one was ready, ‘if you’d fol­low me.’

Puz­zled but in­ter­est­ed, the class got to its feet and fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor Lupin out of the class­room. He led them along the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor and around a cor­ner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the poltergeist, who was float­ing up­side-​down in mid-​air and stuff­ing the near­est key­hole with chew­ing gum.

Peeves didn’t look up un­til Pro­fes­sor Lupin was two feet away, then he wig­gled his curly-​toed feet and broke in­to song.

‘Loony loopy Lupin,’ Peeves sang. ‘Loony loopy Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin –’

Rude and un­man­age­able as he al­most al­ways was, Peeves usu­al­ly showed some re­spect to­wards the teach­ers. Ev­ery­one looked quick­ly at Pro­fes­sor Lupin to see how he would take this; to their sur­prise, he was still smil­ing.

‘I’d take that gum out of the key­hole, if I were you, Peeves,’ he said pleas­ant­ly. ‘Mr Filch won’t be able to get in to his brooms.’

Filch was the Hog­warts care­tak­er, a bad-​tem­pered, failed wiz­ard who waged a con­stant war against the stu­dents and, in­deed, Peeves. How­ev­er, Peeves paid no at­ten­tion to Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s words, ex­cept to blow a loud wet rasp­ber­ry.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand.

‘This is a use­ful lit­tle spell,’ he told the class over his shoul­der. ‘Please watch close­ly.’

He raised the wand to shoul­der height, said ‘Wad­di­wasi!’ and point­ed it at Peeves.

With the force of a bul­let, the wad of chew­ing gum shot out of the key­hole and straight down Peeves’s left nos­tril; he whirled right way up and zoomed away, curs­ing.

‘Cool, sir!’ said Dean Thomas in amaze­ment.

‘Thank you, Dean,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, putting his wand away again. ‘Shall we pro­ceed?’

They set off again, the class look­ing at shab­by Pro­fes­sor Lupin with in­creased re­spect. He led them down a sec­ond cor­ri­dor and stopped, right out­side the staff room door.

‘In­side, please,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, open­ing it and stand­ing back.

The staff room, a long, pan­elled room full of old, mis­matched chairs, was emp­ty ex­cept for one teach­er. Pro­fes­sor Snape was sit­ting in a low arm­chair, and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were glit­ter­ing and there was a nasty sneer play­ing around his mouth. As Pro­fes­sor Lupin came in and made to close the door be­hind him, Snape said, ‘Leave it open, Lupin. I’d rather not wit­ness this.’ He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes bil­low­ing be­hind him. At the door­way he turned on his heel and said, ‘Pos­si­bly no one’s warned you, Lupin, but this class con­tains Neville Long­bot­tom. I would ad­vise you not to en­trust him with any­thing dif­fi­cult. Not un­less Miss Granger is hiss­ing in­struc­tions in his ear.’

Neville went scar­let. Har­ry glared at Snape; it was bad enough that he bul­lied Neville in his own class­es, let alone do­ing it in front of oth­er teach­ers.

Pro­fes­sor Lupin had raised his eye­brows.

‘I was hop­ing that Neville would as­sist me with the first stage of the op­er­ation,’ he said, ‘and I am sure he will per­form it ad­mirably.’

Neville’s face went, if pos­si­ble, even red­der. Snape’s lip curled, but he left, shut­ting the door with a snap.

‘Now, then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, beck­on­ing the class to­wards the end of the room, where there was noth­ing ex­cept an old wardrobe in which the teach­ers kept their spare robes. As Pro­fes­sor Lupin went to stand next to it, the wardrobe gave a sud­den wob­ble, bang­ing off the wall.

‘Noth­ing to wor­ry about,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin calm­ly, as a few peo­ple jumped back­wards in alarm. ‘There’s a Bog­gart in there.’

Most peo­ple seemed to feel that this was some­thing to wor­ry about. Neville gave Pro­fes­sor Lupin a look of pure ter­ror, and Sea­mus Finni­gan eyed the now rat­tling door­knob ap­pre­hen­sive­ly.

‘Bog­garts like dark, en­closed spaces,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Wardrobes, the gap be­neath beds, the cup­boards un­der sinks – I once met one that had lodged it­self in a grand­fa­ther clock. This one moved in yes­ter­day af­ter­noon, and I asked the Head­mas­ter if the staff would leave it to give my third-​years some prac­tice.

‘So, the first ques­tion we must ask our­selves is, what is a Bog­gart?’

Hermione put up her hand.

‘It’s a shape-​shifter,’ she said. ‘It can take the shape of what­ev­er it thinks will fright­en us most.’

‘Couldn’t have put it bet­ter my­self,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, and Hermione glowed. ‘So the Bog­gart sit­ting in the dark­ness with­in has not yet as­sumed a form. He does not yet know what will fright­en the per­son on the oth­er side of the door. No­body knows what a Bog­gart looks like when he is alone, but when I let him out, he will im­me­di­ate­ly be­come what­ev­er each of us most fears.

‘This means,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, choos­ing to ig­nore Neville’s small splut­ter of ter­ror, ‘that we have a huge ad­van­tage over the Bog­gart be­fore we be­gin. Have you spot­ted it, Har­ry?’

Try­ing to an­swer a ques­tion with Hermione next to him, bob­bing up and down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very off-​putting, but Har­ry had a go.

‘Er – be­cause there are so many of us, it won’t know what shape it should be?’

‘Pre­cise­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, and Hermione put her hand down look­ing a lit­tle dis­ap­point­ed. ‘It’s al­ways best to have com­pa­ny when you’re deal­ing with a Bog­gart. He be­comes con­fused. Which should he be­come, a head­less corpse or a flesh-​eat­ing slug? I once saw a Bog­gart make that very mis­take – tried to fright­en two peo­ple at once and turned him­self in­to half a slug. Not re­mote­ly fright­en­ing.

‘The charm that re­pels a Bog­gart is sim­ple, yet it re­quires force of mind. You see, the thing that re­al­ly fin­ish­es a Bog­gart is laugh­ter. What you need to do is force it to as­sume a shape that you find amus­ing.

‘We will prac­tise the charm with­out wands first. Af­ter me, please … rid­diku­lus!’

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ said the class to­geth­er.

‘Good,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Very good. But that was the easy part, I’m afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you come in, Neville.’

The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked for­ward as though he was head­ing for the gal­lows.

‘Right, Neville,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘First things first: what would you say is the thing that fright­ens you most in the world?’

Neville’s lips moved, but no noise came out.

‘Didn’t catch that, Neville, sor­ry,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin cheer­ful­ly.

Neville looked around rather wild­ly, as though beg­ging some­one to help him, then said, in bare­ly more than a whis­per, ‘Pro­fes­sor Snape.’

Near­ly ev­ery­one laughed. Even Neville grinned apolo­get­ical­ly. Pro­fes­sor Lupin, how­ev­er, looked thought­ful.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape … hm­mm … Neville, I be­lieve you live with your grand­moth­er?’

‘Er – yes,’ said Neville ner­vous­ly. ‘But – I don’t want the Bog­gart to turn in­to her, ei­ther.’

‘No, no, you mis­un­der­stand me,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, now smil­ing. ‘I won­der, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grand­moth­er usu­al­ly wears?’

Neville looked star­tled, but said, ‘Well … al­ways the same hat. A tall one with a stuffed vul­ture on top. And a long dress … green, nor­mal­ly … and some­times a fox-​fur scarf.’

‘And a hand­bag?’ prompt­ed Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

‘A big red one,’ said Neville.

‘Right then,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Can you pic­ture those clothes very clear­ly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind’s eye?’

‘Yes,’ said Neville un­cer­tain­ly, plain­ly won­der­ing what was com­ing next.

‘When the Bog­gart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will as­sume the form of Pro­fes­sor Snape,’ said Lupin. ‘And you will raise your wand – thus – and cry ‘Rid­diku­lus’ – and con­cen­trate hard on your grand­moth­er’s clothes. If all goes well, Pro­fes­sor Bog­gart Snape will be forced in­to that vul­ture-​topped hat, that green dress, that big red hand­bag.’

There was a great shout of laugh­ter. The wardrobe wob­bled more vi­olent­ly.

‘If Neville is suc­cess­ful, the Bog­gart is like­ly to turn his at­ten­tion to each of us in turn,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘I would like all of you to take a mo­ment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imag­ine how you might force it to look com­ical …’

The room went qui­et. Har­ry thought … What scared him most in the world?

His first thought was Lord Volde­mort – a Volde­mort re­turned to full strength. But be­fore he had even start­ed to plan a pos­si­ble counter-​at­tack on a Bog­gart-​Volde­mort, a hor­ri­ble im­age came float­ing to the sur­face of his mind …

A rot­ting, glis­ten­ing hand, slith­er­ing back be­neath a black cloak … a long, rat­tling breath from an un­seen mouth … then a cold so pen­etrat­ing it felt like drown­ing …

Har­ry shiv­ered, then looked around, hop­ing no one had no­ticed. Many peo­ple had their eyes shut tight. Ron was mut­ter­ing to him­self, ‘Take its legs off.’ Har­ry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron’s great­est fear was spi­ders.

‘Ev­ery­one ready?’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

Har­ry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn’t ready. How could you make a De­men­tor less fright­en­ing? But he didn’t want to ask for more time; ev­ery­one else was nod­ding and rolling up their sleeves.

‘Neville, we’re go­ing to back away,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Let you have a clear field, all right? I’ll call the next per­son for­ward … ev­ery­one back, now, so Neville can get a clear shot –’

They all re­treat­ed, back­ing against the walls, leav­ing Neville alone be­side the wardrobe. He looked pale and fright­ened, but he had pushed up the sleeves of his robes and was hold­ing his wand ready.

‘On the count of three, Neville,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who was point­ing his own wand at the han­dle of the wardrobe. ‘One – two – three – now!’

A jet of sparks shot from the end of Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s wand and hit the door­knob. The wardrobe burst open. Hook-​nosed and men­ac­ing, Pro­fes­sor Snape stepped out, his eyes flash­ing at Neville.

Neville backed away, his wand up, mouthing word­less­ly. Snape was bear­ing down up­on him, reach­ing in­side his robes.

‘R-​r-​rid­diku­lus!’ squeaked Neville.

There was a noise like a whip-​crack. Snape stum­bled; he was wear­ing a long, lace-​trimmed dress and a tow­er­ing hat topped with a moth-​eat­en vul­ture, and swing­ing a huge crim­son hand­bag from his hand.

There was a roar of laugh­ter; the Bog­gart paused, con­fused, and Pro­fes­sor Lupin shout­ed, ‘Par­vati! For­ward!’

Par­vati walked for­ward, her face set. Snape round­ed on her. There was an­oth­er crack, and where he had stood was a blood­stained, ban­daged mum­my; its sight­less face was turned to Par­vati and it be­gan to walk to­wards her, very slow­ly, drag­ging its feet, its stiff arms ris­ing –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ cried Par­vati.

A ban­dage un­rav­elled at the mum­my’s feet; it be­came en­tan­gled, fell face for­wards and its head rolled off.

‘Sea­mus!’ roared Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

Sea­mus dart­ed past Par­vati.

Crack! Where the mum­my had been was a wom­an with floor-​length black hair and a skele­tal, green-​tinged face – a ban­shee. She opened her mouth wide, and an un­earth­ly sound filled the room, a long, wail­ing shriek which made the hair on Har­ry’s head stand on end –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ shout­ed Sea­mus.

The ban­shee made a rasp­ing noise and clutched her throat; her voice was gone.

Crack! The ban­shee turned in­to a rat, which chased its tail in a cir­cle, then – crack! – be­came a rat­tlesnake, which slith­ered and writhed be­fore – crack! – be­com­ing a sin­gle, bloody eye­ball.

‘It’s con­fused!’ shout­ed Lupin. ‘We’re get­ting there! Dean!’

Dean hur­ried for­ward.

Crack! The eye­ball be­came a sev­ered hand, which flipped over, and be­gan to creep along the floor like a crab.

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ yelled Dean.

There was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a mouse­trap.

‘Ex­cel­lent! Ron, you next!’

Ron leapt for­ward.

‘Crack!’

Quite a few peo­ple screamed. A gi­ant spi­der, six feet tall and cov­ered in hair, was ad­vanc­ing on Ron, click­ing its pin­cers men­ac­ing­ly. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Ron had frozen. Then –

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ bel­lowed Ron, and the spi­der’s legs van­ished. It rolled over and over; Laven­der Brown squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt at Har­ry’s feet. He raised his wand, ready, but –

‘Here!’ shout­ed Pro­fes­sor Lupin sud­den­ly, hur­ry­ing for­ward.

Crack!

The leg­less spi­der had van­ished. For a sec­ond, ev­ery­one looked wild­ly around to see where it was. Then they saw a sil­very-​white orb hang­ing in the air in front of Lupin, who said ‘Rid­diku­lus!’ al­most lazi­ly.

Crack!

‘For­ward, Neville, and fin­ish him off!’ said Lupin, as the Bog­gart land­ed on the floor as a cock­roach. Crack! Snape was back. This time Neville charged for­ward look­ing de­ter­mined.

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ he shout­ed, and they had a split sec­ond’s view of Snape in his lacy dress be­fore Neville let out a great ‘Ha!’ of laugh­ter, and the Bog­gart ex­plod­ed, burst in­to a thou­sand tiny wisps of smoke, and was gone.

‘Ex­cel­lent!’ cried Pro­fes­sor Lupin, as the class broke in­to ap­plause. ‘Ex­cel­lent, Neville. Well done, ev­ery­one. Let me see … five points to Gryffind­or for ev­ery per­son to tack­le the Bog­gart – ten for Neville be­cause he did it twice – and five each to Hermione and Har­ry.’

‘But I didn’t do any­thing,’ said Har­ry.

‘You and Hermione an­swered my ques­tions cor­rect­ly at the start of the class, Har­ry,’ Lupin said light­ly. ‘Very well, ev­ery­one, an ex­cel­lent les­son. Home­work, kind­ly read the chap­ter on Bog­garts and sum­marise it for me … to be hand­ed in on Mon­day. That will be all.’

Talk­ing ex­cit­ed­ly, the class left the staff room. Har­ry, how­ev­er, wasn’t feel­ing cheer­ful. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had de­lib­er­ate­ly stopped him tack­ling the Bog­gart. Why? Was it be­cause he’d seen Har­ry col­lapse on the train, and thought he wasn’t up to much? Had he thought Har­ry would pass out again?

But no one else seemed to have no­ticed any­thing.

‘Did you see me take that ban­shee?’ shout­ed Sea­mus.

‘And the hand!’ said Dean, wav­ing his own around.

‘And Snape in that hat!’

‘And my mum­my!’

‘I won­der why Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s fright­ened of crys­tal balls?’ said Laven­der thought­ful­ly.

‘That was the best De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son we’ve ev­er had, wasn’t it?’ said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, as they made their way back to the class­room to get their bags.

‘He seems a very good teach­er,’ said Hermione ap­prov­ing­ly. ‘But I wish I could have had a turn with the Bog­gart –’

‘What would it have been for you?’ said Ron, snig­ger­ing. ‘A piece of home­work that on­ly got nine out of ten?’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER EIGHT


Flight of the Fat La­dy



In no time at all, De­fence Against the Dark Arts had be­come most peo­ple’s favourite class. On­ly Dra­co Mal­foy and his gang of Slytherins had any­thing bad to say about Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

‘Look at the state of his robes,’ Mal­foy would say in a loud whis­per as Pro­fes­sor Lupin passed. ‘He dress­es like our old house-​elf.’

But no one else cared that Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s robes were patched and frayed. His next few lessons were just as in­ter­est­ing as the first. Af­ter Bog­garts, they stud­ied Red Caps, nasty lit­tle gob­lin-​like crea­tures that lurked wher­ev­er there had been blood­shed, in the dun­geons of cas­tles and the pot­holes of de­sert­ed bat­tle­fields, wait­ing to blud­geon those who had got lost. From Red Caps they moved on to Kap­pas, creepy wa­ter-​dwellers that looked like scaly mon­keys, with webbed hands itch­ing to stran­gle un­wit­ting waders in their ponds.

Har­ry on­ly wished he was as hap­py with some of his oth­er class­es. Worst of all was Po­tions. Snape was in a par­tic­ular­ly vin­dic­tive mood these days, and no one was in any doubt why. The sto­ry of the Bog­gart as­sum­ing Snape’s shape, and the way that Neville had dressed it in his grand­moth­er’s clothes, had trav­elled through the school like wild­fire. Snape didn’t seem to find it fun­ny. His eyes flashed men­ac­ing­ly at the very men­tion of Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s name, and he was bul­ly­ing Neville worse than ev­er.

Har­ry was al­so grow­ing to dread the hours he spent in Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s sti­fling tow­er room, de­ci­pher­ing lop-​sid­ed shapes and sym­bols, try­ing to ig­nore the way Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s enor­mous eyes filled with tears ev­ery time she looked at him. He couldn’t like Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, even though she was treat­ed with re­spect bor­der­ing on rev­er­ence by many of the class. Par­vati Patil and Laven­der Brown had tak­en to haunt­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s tow­er room at lunchtimes, and al­ways re­turned with an­noy­ing­ly su­pe­ri­or looks on their faces, as though they knew things the oth­ers didn’t. They had al­so start­ed us­ing hushed voic­es when­ev­er they spoke to Har­ry, as though he was on his deathbed.

No­body re­al­ly liked Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, which, af­ter the ac­tion-​packed first class, had be­come ex­treme­ly dull. Ha­grid seemed to have lost his con­fi­dence. They were now spend­ing les­son af­ter les­son learn­ing how to look af­ter Flob­ber­worms, which had to be some of the most bor­ing crea­tures in ex­is­tence.

‘Why would any­one both­er look­ing af­ter them?’ said Ron, af­ter yet an­oth­er hour of pok­ing shred­ded let­tuce down the Flob­ber­worms’ slimy throats.

At the start of Oc­to­ber, how­ev­er, Har­ry had some­thing else to oc­cu­py him, some­thing so en­joy­able it made up for his un­sat­is­fac­to­ry class­es. The Quid­ditch sea­son was ap­proach­ing, and Oliv­er Wood, Cap­tain of the Gryffind­or team, called a meet­ing one Thurs­day evening to dis­cuss tac­tics for the new sea­son.

There were sev­en peo­ple on a Quid­ditch team: three Chasers, whose job it was to score goals by putting the Quaf­fle (a red, foot­ball-​sized ball) through one of the fifty-​foot-​high hoops at each end of the pitch; two Beat­ers, who were equipped with heavy bats to re­pel the Bludgers (two heavy black balls which zoomed around try­ing to at­tack the play­ers); a Keep­er, who de­fend­ed the goal­posts, and the Seek­er, who had the hard­est job of all, that of catch­ing the Gold­en Snitch, a tiny, winged, wal­nut-​sized ball, whose cap­ture end­ed the game and earned the Seek­er’s team an ex­tra one hun­dred and fifty points.

Oliv­er Wood was a burly sev­en­teen-​year-​old, now in his sev­enth and fi­nal year at Hog­warts. There was a qui­et sort of des­per­ation in his voice as he ad­dressed his six fel­low team mem­bers in the chilly chang­ing rooms on the edge of the dark­en­ing Quid­ditch pitch.

‘This is our last chance – my last chance – to win the Quid­ditch cup,’ he told them, strid­ing up and down in front of them. ‘I’ll be leav­ing at the end of this year. I’ll nev­er get an­oth­er shot at it.

‘Gryffind­or haven’t won for sev­en years now. OK, so we’ve had the worst luck in the world – in­juries – then the tour­na­ment get­ting called off last year …’ Wood swal­lowed, as though the mem­ory still brought a lump to his throat. ‘But we al­so know we’ve got the best – rud­dy – team – in – the – school,’ he said, punch­ing a fist in­to his oth­er hand, the old man­ic glint back in his eye.

‘We’ve got three su­perb Chasers.’

Wood point­ed at Ali­cia Spin­net, An­geli­na John­son and Katie Bell.

‘We’ve got two un­beat­able Beat­ers.’

‘Stop it, Oliv­er, you’re em­bar­rass­ing us,’ said Fred and George Weasley to­geth­er, pre­tend­ing to blush.

‘And we’ve got a Seek­er who has nev­er failed to win us a match!’ Wood rum­bled, glar­ing at Har­ry with a kind of fu­ri­ous pride. ‘And me,’ he added, as an af­terthought.

‘We think you’re very good, too, Oliv­er,’ said George.

‘Crack­ing Keep­er,’ said Fred.

‘The point is,’ Wood went on, re­sum­ing his pac­ing, ‘the Quid­ditch cup should have had our name on it these last two years. Ev­er since Har­ry joined the team, I’ve thought the thing was in the bag. But we haven’t got it, and this year’s the last chance we’ll get to fi­nal­ly see our name on the thing …’

Wood spoke so de­ject­ed­ly that even Fred and George looked sym­pa­thet­ic.

‘Oliv­er, this year’s our year,’ said Fred.

‘We’ll do it, Oliv­er!’ said An­geli­na.

‘Def­inite­ly,’ said Har­ry.

Full of de­ter­mi­na­tion, the team start­ed train­ing ses­sions, three evenings a week. The weath­er was get­ting cold­er and wet­ter, the nights dark­er, but no amount of mud, wind or rain could tar­nish Har­ry’s won­der­ful vi­sion of fi­nal­ly win­ning the huge, sil­ver Quid­ditch cup.

Har­ry re­turned to the Gryffind­or com­mon room one evening af­ter train­ing, cold and stiff but pleased with the way prac­tice had gone, to find the room buzzing ex­cit­ed­ly.

‘What’s hap­pened?’ he asked Ron and Hermione, who were sit­ting in two of the best chairs by the fire­side and com­plet­ing some star charts for As­tron­omy.

‘First Hogsmeade week­end,’ said Ron, point­ing at a no­tice that had ap­peared on the bat­tered old no­tice board. ‘End of Oc­to­ber. Hal­lowe’en.’

‘Ex­cel­lent,’ said Fred, who had fol­lowed Har­ry through the por­trait hole. ‘I need to vis­it Zonko’s, I’m near­ly out of Stink Pel­lets.’

Har­ry threw him­self in­to a chair be­side Ron, his high spir­its ebbing away. Hermione seemed to read his mind.

‘Har­ry, I’m sure you’ll be able to go next time,’ she said. ‘They’re bound to catch Black soon, he’s been sight­ed once al­ready.’

‘Black’s not fool enough to try any­thing in Hogsmeade,’ said Ron. ‘Ask McG­ona­gall if you can go this time, Har­ry, the next one might not be for ages –’

‘Ron!’ said Hermione. ‘Har­ry’s sup­posed to stay in school –’

‘He can’t be the on­ly third-​year left be­hind,’ said Ron. ‘Ask McG­ona­gall, go on, Har­ry –’

‘Yeah, I think I will,’ said Har­ry, mak­ing up his mind.

Hermione opened her mouth to ar­gue, but at that mo­ment Crook­shanks leapt light­ly on­to her lap. A large, dead spi­der was dan­gling from his mouth.

‘Does he have to eat that in front of us?’ said Ron, scowl­ing.

‘Clever Crook­shanks, did you catch that all by your­self?’ said Hermione.

Crook­shanks slow­ly chewed up the spi­der, his yel­low eyes fixed in­so­lent­ly on Ron.

‘Just keep him over there, that’s all,’ said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly, turn­ing back to his star chart. ‘I’ve got Scab­bers asleep in my bag.’

Har­ry yawned. He re­al­ly want­ed to go to bed, but he still had his own star chart to com­plete. He pulled his bag to­wards him, took out parch­ment, ink and quill, and start­ed work.

‘You can copy mine, if you like,’ said Ron, la­belling his last star with a flour­ish and shov­ing the chart to­wards Har­ry.

Hermione, who dis­ap­proved of copy­ing, pursed her lips, but didn’t say any­thing. Crook­shanks was still star­ing un­blink­ing­ly at Ron, flick­ing the end of his bushy tail. Then, with­out warn­ing, he pounced.

‘OY!’ Ron roared, seiz­ing his bag, as Crook­shanks sank four sets of claws deeply in­to it, and be­gan tear­ing fe­ro­cious­ly. ‘GET OFF, YOU STUPID AN­IMAL!’

Ron tried to pull the bag away from Crook­shanks, but Crook­shanks clung on, spit­ting and slash­ing.

‘Ron, don’t hurt him!’ squealed Hermione. The whole com­mon room was watch­ing; Ron whirled the bag around, Crook­shanks still cling­ing to it, and Scab­bers came fly­ing out of the top –

‘CATCH THAT CAT!’ Ron yelled, as Crook­shanks freed him­self from the rem­nants of the bag, sprang over the ta­ble and chased af­ter the ter­ri­fied Scab­bers.

George Weasley made a lunge for Crook­shanks but missed; Scab­bers streaked through twen­ty pairs of legs and shot be­neath an old chest of draw­ers. Crook­shanks skid­ded to a halt, crouched low on his bandy legs and start­ed mak­ing fu­ri­ous swipes be­neath the chest of draw­ers with his front paw.

Ron and Hermione hur­ried over; Hermione grabbed Crook­shanks around the mid­dle and heaved him away; Ron threw him­self on­to his stom­ach and, with great dif­fi­cul­ty, pulled Scab­bers out by the tail.

‘Look at him!’ he said fu­ri­ous­ly to Hermione, dan­gling Scab­bers in front of her. ‘He’s skin and bone! You keep that cat away from him!’

‘Crook­shanks doesn’t un­der­stand it’s wrong!’ said Hermione, her voice shak­ing. ‘All cats chase rats, Ron!’

‘There’s some­thing fun­ny about that an­imal!’ said Ron, who was try­ing to per­suade a fran­ti­cal­ly wig­gling Scab­bers back in­to his pock­et. ‘It heard me say that Scab­bers was in my bag!’

‘Oh, what rub­bish,’ said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly. ‘Crook­shanks could smell him, Ron, how else d’you think –’

‘That cat’s got it in for Scab­bers!’ said Ron, ig­nor­ing the peo­ple around him, who were start­ing to gig­gle. ‘And Scab­bers was here first, and he’s ill!’

Ron marched through the com­mon room and out of sight up the stairs to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries.

*

Ron was still in a bad mood with Hermione next day. He bare­ly talked to her all through Her­bol­ogy, even though he, Har­ry and Hermione were work­ing to­geth­er on the same Puffa­pod.

‘How’s Scab­bers?’ Hermione asked timid­ly, as they stripped fat pink pods from the plants and emp­tied the shin­ing beans in­to a wood­en pail.

‘He’s hid­ing at the bot­tom of my bed, shak­ing,’ said Ron an­gri­ly, miss­ing the pail and scat­ter­ing beans over the green­house floor.

‘Care­ful, Weasley, care­ful!’ cried Pro­fes­sor Sprout, as the beans burst in­to bloom be­fore their very eyes.

They had Trans­fig­ura­tion next. Har­ry, who had re­solved to ask Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall af­ter the les­son whether he could go in­to Hogsmeade with the rest, joined the queue out­side the class­room, try­ing to de­cide how he was go­ing to ar­gue his case. He was dis­tract­ed, how­ev­er, by a dis­tur­bance at the front of the line.

Laven­der Brown seemed to be cry­ing. Par­vati had her arm around her, and was ex­plain­ing some­thing to Sea­mus Finni­gan and Dean Thomas, who were look­ing very se­ri­ous.

‘What’s the mat­ter, Laven­der?’ said Hermione anx­ious­ly, as she, Har­ry and Ron went to join the group.

‘She got a let­ter from home this morn­ing,’ Par­vati whis­pered. ‘It’s her rab­bit, Binky. He’s been killed by a fox.’

‘Oh,’ said Hermione. ‘I’m sor­ry, Laven­der.’

‘I should have known!’ said Laven­der trag­ical­ly. ‘You know what day it is?’

‘Er–’

‘The six­teenth of Oc­to­ber! ‘That thing you’re dread­ing, it will hap­pen on the six­teenth of Oc­to­ber!’ Re­mem­ber? She was right, she was right!’

The whole class was gath­ered around Laven­der now. Sea­mus shook his head se­ri­ous­ly. Hermione hes­itat­ed; then she said, ‘You – you were dread­ing Binky be­ing killed by a fox?’

‘Well, not nec­es­sar­ily by a fox,’ said Laven­der, look­ing up at Hermione with stream­ing eyes, ‘but I was ob­vi­ous­ly dread­ing him dy­ing, wasn’t I?’

‘Oh,’ said Hermione. She paused again. Then –

‘Was Binky an old rab­bit?’

‘N-​no!’ sobbed Laven­der. ‘H-​he was on­ly a ba­by!’

Par­vati tight­ened her arm around Laven­der’s shoul­ders.

‘But then, why would you dread him dy­ing?’ said Hermione.

Par­vati glared at her.

‘Well, look at it log­ical­ly,’ said Hermione, turn­ing to the rest of the group. ‘I mean, Binky didn’t even die to­day, did he, Laven­der just got the news to­day –’ Laven­der wailed loud­ly ‘– and she can’t have been dread­ing it, be­cause it’s come as a re­al shock –’

‘Don’t mind Hermione, Laven­der,’ said Ron loud­ly, ‘she doesn’t think oth­er peo­ple’s pets mat­ter very much.’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall opened the class­room door at that mo­ment, which was per­haps lucky; Hermione and Ron were look­ing dag­gers at each oth­er, and when they got in­to class, they seat­ed them­selves ei­ther side of Har­ry, and didn’t talk to each oth­er all les­son.

Har­ry still hadn’t de­cid­ed what he was go­ing to say to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall when the bell rang at the end of the les­son, but it was she who brought up the sub­ject of Hogsmeade first.

‘One mo­ment, please!’ she called, as the class made to leave. ‘As you’re all in my house, you should hand Hogsmeade per­mis­sion forms to me be­fore Hal­lowe’en. No form, no vis­it­ing the vil­lage, so don’t for­get!’

Neville put up his hand.

‘Please, Pro­fes­sor, I – I think I’ve lost –’

‘Your grand­moth­er sent yours to me di­rect­ly, Long­bot­tom,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘She seemed to think it was safer. Well, that’s all, you may leave.’

‘Ask her now,’ Ron hissed at Har­ry.

‘Oh, but –’ Hermione be­gan.

‘Go for it, Har­ry’ said Ron stub­born­ly.

Har­ry wait­ed for the rest of the class to dis­ap­pear, then head­ed ner­vous­ly for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s desk.

‘Yes, Pot­ter?’

Har­ry took a deep breath.

‘Pro­fes­sor, my aunt and un­cle – er – for­got to sign my form,’ he said.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked over her square spec­ta­cles at him, but didn’t say any­thing.

‘So – er – d’you think it would be all right – I mean, will it be OK if I – if I go to Hogsmeade?’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked down and be­gan shuf­fling pa­pers on her desk.

‘I’m afraid not, Pot­ter,’ she said. ‘You heard what I said. No form, no vis­it­ing the vil­lage. That’s the rule.’

‘But – Pro­fes­sor, my aunt and un­cle – you know, they’re Mug­gles, they don’t re­al­ly un­der­stand about – about Hog­warts forms and stuff,’ Har­ry said, while Ron egged him on with vig­or­ous nods. ‘If you said I could go –’

‘But I don’t say so,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, stand­ing up and pil­ing her pa­pers neat­ly in­to a draw­er. ‘The form clear­ly states that the par­ent or guardian must give per­mis­sion.’ She turned to look at him, with an odd ex­pres­sion on her face. Was it pity? ‘I’m sor­ry, Pot­ter, but that’s my fi­nal word. You had bet­ter hur­ry, or you’ll be late for your next les­son.’

*

There was noth­ing to be done. Ron called Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall a lot of names that great­ly an­noyed Hermione; Hermione as­sumed an ‘all-​for-​the-​best’ ex­pres­sion that made Ron even an­gri­er, and Har­ry had to en­dure ev­ery­one in the class talk­ing loud­ly and hap­pi­ly about what they were go­ing to do first, once they got in­to Hogsmeade.

‘There’s al­ways the feast,’ said Ron, in an ef­fort to cheer Har­ry up. ‘You know, the Hal­lowe’en feast, in the evening.’

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, gloomi­ly, ‘great.’

The Hal­lowe’en feast was al­ways good, but it would taste a lot bet­ter if he was com­ing to it af­ter a day in Hogsmeade with ev­ery­one else. Noth­ing any­one said made him feel any bet­ter about be­ing left be­hind. Dean Thomas, who was good with a quill, had of­fered to forge Un­cle Ver­non’s sig­na­ture on the form, but as Har­ry had al­ready told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall he hadn’t had it signed, that was no good. Ron half-​heart­ed­ly sug­gest­ed the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, but Hermione stamped on that one, re­mind­ing Ron what Dum­ble­dore had told them about the De­men­tors be­ing able to see through them. Per­cy had what were pos­si­bly the least help­ful words of com­fort.

‘They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I as­sure you, Har­ry, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be,’ he said se­ri­ous­ly. ‘All right, the sweet­shop’s rather good, but Zonko’s Joke Shop’s frankly dan­ger­ous, and yes, the Shriek­ing Shack’s al­ways worth a vis­it, but re­al­ly, Har­ry, apart from that, you’re not miss­ing any­thing.’

*

On Hal­lowe’en morn­ing, Har­ry awoke with the rest and went down to break­fast feel­ing thor­ough­ly de­pressed, though do­ing his best to act nor­mal­ly.

‘We’ll bring you lots of sweets back from Hon­ey­dukes,’ said Hermione, look­ing des­per­ate­ly sor­ry for him.

‘Yeah, loads,’ said Ron. He and Hermione had fi­nal­ly for­got­ten their squab­ble about Crook­shanks in the face of Har­ry’s dis­ap­point­ment.

‘Don’t wor­ry about me,’ said Har­ry, in what he hoped was an off­hand voice. ‘I’ll see you at the feast. Have a good time.’

He ac­com­pa­nied them to the En­trance Hall, where Filch, the care­tak­er, was stand­ing in­side the front doors, check­ing off names against a long list, peer­ing sus­pi­cious­ly in­to ev­ery face, and mak­ing sure that no one was sneak­ing out who shouldn’t be go­ing.

‘Stay­ing here, Pot­ter?’ shout­ed Mal­foy who was stand­ing in line with Crabbe and Goyle. ‘Scared of pass­ing the De­men­tors?’

Har­ry ig­nored him and made his soli­tary way up the mar­ble stair­case, through the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors, and back to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

‘Pass­word?’ said the Fat La­dy, jerk­ing out of a doze.

‘For­tu­na Ma­jor,’ said Har­ry list­less­ly.

The por­trait swung open and he climbed through the hole in­to the com­mon room. It was full of chat­ter­ing first- and sec­ond-​years, and a few old­er stu­dents who had ob­vi­ous­ly vis­it­ed Hogsmeade so of­ten the nov­el­ty had worn off.

‘Har­ry! Har­ry! Hi, Har­ry!’

It was Col­in Creevey, a sec­ond-​year who was deeply in awe of Har­ry and nev­er missed an op­por­tu­ni­ty to speak to him.

‘Aren’t you go­ing to Hogsmeade, Har­ry? Why not? Hey –’ Col­in looked ea­ger­ly around at his friends, ‘you can come and sit with us, if you like, Har­ry!’

‘Er – no, thanks, Col­in,’ said Har­ry, who wasn’t in the mood to have a lot of peo­ple star­ing avid­ly at the scar on his fore­head. ‘I – I’ve got to go to the li­brary, got to get some work done.’

Af­ter that, he had no choice but to turn right around and head back out of the por­trait hole again.

‘What was the point of wak­ing me up?’ the Fat La­dy called grumpi­ly af­ter him as he walked away.

Har­ry wan­dered dispirit­ed­ly to­wards the li­brary, but halfway there he changed his mind; he didn’t feel like work­ing. He turned around and came face to face with Filch, who had ob­vi­ous­ly just seen off the last of the Hogsmeade vis­itors.

‘What are you do­ing?’ Filch snarled sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘Noth­ing,’ said Har­ry truth­ful­ly.

‘Noth­ing!’ spat Filch, his jowls quiv­er­ing un­pleas­ant­ly. ‘A like­ly sto­ry! Sneak­ing around on your own, why aren’t you in Hogsmeade buy­ing Stink Pel­lets and Belch Pow­der and Whizzing Worms like the rest of your nasty lit­tle friends?’

Har­ry shrugged.

‘Well, get back to your com­mon room where you be­long!’ snapped Filch, and he stood glar­ing un­til Har­ry had passed out of sight.

But Har­ry didn’t go back to the com­mon room; he climbed a stair­case, think­ing vague­ly of vis­it­ing the Owlery to see Hed­wig, and was walk­ing along an­oth­er cor­ri­dor when a voice from in­side one of the rooms said, ‘Har­ry?’

Har­ry dou­bled back to see who had spo­ken and met Pro­fes­sor Lupin, look­ing around his of­fice door.

‘What are you do­ing?’ said Lupin, in a very dif­fer­ent voice from Filch. ‘Where are Ron and Hermione?’

‘Hogsmeade,’ said Har­ry, in a would-​be ca­su­al voice.

‘Ah,’ said Lupin. He con­sid­ered Har­ry for a mo­ment. ‘Why don’t you come in? I’ve just tak­en de­liv­ery of a Grindy­low for our next les­son.’

‘A what?’ said Har­ry.

He fol­lowed Lupin in­to his of­fice. In the cor­ner stood a very large tank of wa­ter. A sick­ly green crea­ture with sharp lit­tle horns had its face pressed against the glass, pulling faces and flex­ing its long, spindly fin­gers.

‘Wa­ter de­mon,’ said Lupin, sur­vey­ing the Grindy­low thought­ful­ly. ‘We shouldn’t have much dif­fi­cul­ty with him, not af­ter the Kap­pas. The trick is to break his grip. You no­tice the ab­nor­mal­ly long fin­gers? Strong, but very brit­tle.’

The Grindy­low bared its green teeth and then buried it­self in a tan­gle of weed in a cor­ner.

‘Cup of tea?’ Lupin said, look­ing around for his ket­tle. ‘I was just think­ing of mak­ing one.’

‘All right,’ said Har­ry awk­ward­ly.

Lupin tapped the ket­tle with his wand and a blast of steam is­sued sud­den­ly from the spout.

‘Sit down,’ said Lupin, tak­ing the lid off a dusty tin. ‘I’ve on­ly got teabags, I’m afraid – but I dare­say you’ve had enough of tea leaves?’

Har­ry looked at him. Lupin’s eyes were twin­kling.

‘How did you know about that?’ Har­ry asked.

‘Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told me,’ said Lupin, pass­ing Har­ry a chipped mug of tea. ‘You’re not wor­ried, are you?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry.

He thought for a mo­ment of telling Lupin about the dog he’d seen in Mag­no­lia Cres­cent, but de­cid­ed not to. He didn’t want Lupin to think he was a cow­ard, es­pe­cial­ly since Lupin al­ready seemed to think he couldn’t cope with a Bog­gart.

Some­thing of Har­ry’s thoughts seemed to have shown on his face, be­cause Lupin said, ‘Any­thing wor­ry­ing you, Har­ry?’

‘No,’ Har­ry lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched the Grindy­low bran­dish­ing a fist at him. ‘Yes,’ he said sud­den­ly, putting his tea down on Lupin’s desk. ‘You know that day we fought the Bog­gart?’

‘Yes,’ said Lupin slow­ly.

‘Why didn’t you let me fight it?’ said Har­ry abrupt­ly.

Lupin raised his eye­brows.

‘I would have thought that was ob­vi­ous, Har­ry,’ he said, sound­ing sur­prised.

Har­ry, who had ex­pect­ed Lupin to de­ny that he’d done any such thing, was tak­en aback.

‘Why?’ he said again.

‘Well,’ said Lupin, frown­ing slight­ly, ‘I as­sumed that if the Bog­gart faced you, it would as­sume the shape of Lord Volde­mort.’

Har­ry stared. Not on­ly was this the last an­swer he’d ex­pect­ed, but Lupin had said Volde­mort’s name. The on­ly per­son Har­ry had ev­er heard say the name aloud (apart from him­self) was Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore.

‘Clear­ly, I was wrong,’ said Lupin, still frown­ing at Har­ry. ‘But I didn’t think it a good idea for Lord Volde­mort to ma­te­ri­alise in the staff room. I imag­ined that peo­ple would pan­ic.’

‘I did think of Volde­mort first,’ said Har­ry hon­est­ly. ‘But then I – I re­mem­bered those De­men­tors.’

‘I see,’ said Lupin thought­ful­ly. ‘Well, well … I’m im­pressed.’ He smiled slight­ly at the look of sur­prise on Har­ry’s face. ‘That sug­gests that what you fear most of all is – fear. Very wise, Har­ry.’

Har­ry didn’t know what to say to that, so he drank some more tea.

‘So you’ve been think­ing that I didn’t be­lieve you ca­pa­ble of fight­ing the Bog­gart?’ said Lupin shrewd­ly.

‘Well … yeah,’ said Har­ry. He was sud­den­ly feel­ing a lot hap­pi­er. ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin, you know the De­men­tors –’

He was in­ter­rupt­ed by a knock on the door.

‘Come in,’ called Lupin.

The door opened, and in came Snape. He was car­ry­ing a gob­let, which was smok­ing faint­ly, and stopped at the sight of Har­ry, his black eyes nar­row­ing.

‘Ah, Severus,’ said Lupin, smil­ing. ‘Thanks very much. Could you leave it here on the desk for me?’

Snape set the smok­ing gob­let down, his eyes wan­der­ing be­tween Har­ry and Lupin.

‘I was just show­ing Har­ry my Grindy­low,’ said Lupin pleas­ant­ly, point­ing at the tank.

‘Fas­ci­nat­ing,’ said Snape, with­out look­ing at it. ‘You should drink that di­rect­ly, Lupin.’

‘Yes, yes, I will,’ said Lupin.

‘I made an en­tire caul­dron­ful,’ Snape con­tin­ued. ‘If you need more.’

‘I should prob­ably take some again to­mor­row. Thanks very much, Severus.’

‘Not at all,’ said Snape, but there was a look in his eye Har­ry didn’t like. He backed out of the room, un­smil­ing and watch­ful.

Har­ry looked cu­ri­ous­ly at the gob­let. Lupin smiled.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape has very kind­ly con­coct­ed a po­tion for me,’ he said. ‘I have nev­er been much of a po­tion-​brew­er and this one is par­tic­ular­ly com­plex.’ He picked up the gob­let and sniffed it. ‘Pity sug­ar makes it use­less,’ he added, tak­ing a sip and shud­der­ing.

‘Why –?’ Har­ry be­gan. Lupin looked at him and an­swered the un­fin­ished ques­tion.

‘I’ve been feel­ing a bit off-​colour,’ he said. ‘This po­tion is the on­ly thing that helps. I am very lucky to be work­ing along­side Pro­fes­sor Snape; there aren’t many wiz­ards who are up to mak­ing it.’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin took an­oth­er sip and Har­ry had a mad urge to knock the gob­let out of his hands.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape’s very in­ter­est­ed in the Dark Arts,’ he blurt­ed out.

‘Re­al­ly?’ said Lupin, look­ing on­ly mild­ly in­ter­est­ed as he took an­oth­er gulp of po­tion.

‘Some peo­ple reck­on –’ Har­ry hes­itat­ed, then plunged reck­less­ly on, ‘some peo­ple reck­on he’d do any­thing to get the De­fence Against the Dark Arts job.’

Lupin drained the gob­let and pulled a face.

‘Dis­gust­ing,’ he said. ‘Well, Har­ry, I’d bet­ter get back to work. I’ll see you at the feast lat­er.’

‘Right,’ said Har­ry, putting his emp­ty teacup down.

The emp­ty gob­let was still smok­ing.

*

‘There you go,’ said Ron. ‘We got as much as we could car­ry.’

A show­er of bril­liant­ly coloured sweets fell in­to Har­ry’s lap. It was dusk, and Ron and Hermione had just turned up in the com­mon room, pink-​faced from the cold wind and look­ing as though they’d had the time of their lives.

‘Thanks,’ said Har­ry, pick­ing up a pack­et of tiny black Pep­per Imps. ‘What’s Hogsmeade like? Where did you go?’

By the sound of it – ev­ery­where. Dervish and Banges, the wiz­ard­ing equip­ment shop, Zonko’s Joke Shop, in­to the Three Broom­sticks for foam­ing mugs of hot But­ter­beer and many places be­sides.

‘The post of­fice, Har­ry! About two hun­dred owls, all sit­ting on shelves, all colour-​cod­ed de­pend­ing on how fast you want your let­ter to get there!’

‘Hon­ey­dukes have got a new kind of fudge, they were giv­ing out free sam­ples, there’s a bit, look –’

‘We think we saw an ogre, hon­est­ly, they get all sorts at the Three Broom­sticks –’

‘Wish we could have brought you some But­ter­beer, re­al­ly warms you up –’

‘What did you do?’ said Hermione, look­ing anx­ious. ‘Did you get any work done?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry. ‘Lupin made me a cup of tea in his of­fice. And then Snape came in …’

He told them all about the gob­let. Ron’s mouth fell open.

‘Lupin drank it?’ he gasped. ‘Is he mad?’

Hermione checked her watch.

‘We’d bet­ter go down, you know, the feast’ll be start­ing in five min­utes …’ They hur­ried through the por­trait hole and in­to the crowd, still dis­cussing Snape.

‘But if he – you know –’ Hermione dropped her voice, glanc­ing ner­vous­ly around, ‘if he was try­ing to – to poi­son Lupin – he wouldn’t have done it in front of Har­ry.’

‘Yeah, maybe,’ said Har­ry, as they reached the En­trance Hall and crossed in­to the Great Hall. It had been dec­orat­ed with hun­dreds and hun­dreds of can­dle-​filled pump­kins, a cloud of flut­ter­ing live bats and many flam­ing or­ange stream­ers, which were swim­ming lazi­ly across the stormy ceil­ing like bril­liant wa­ter­snakes.

The food was de­li­cious; even Hermione and Ron, who were full to burst­ing with Hon­ey­dukes sweets man­aged sec­ond help­ings of ev­ery­thing. Har­ry kept glanc­ing at the staff ta­ble. Pro­fes­sor Lupin looked cheer­ful and as well as he ev­er did; he was talk­ing an­imat­ed­ly to tiny lit­tle Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, the Charms teach­er. Har­ry moved his eyes along the ta­ble, to the place where Snape sat. Was he imag­in­ing it, or were Snape’s eyes flick­er­ing to­wards Lupin more of­ten than was nat­ural?

The feast fin­ished with an en­ter­tain­ment pro­vid­ed by the Hog­warts ghosts. They popped out of the walls and ta­bles to do a spot of for­ma­tion glid­ing; Near­ly Head­less Nick, the Gryffind­or ghost, had a great suc­cess with a re-​en­act­ment of his own botched be­head­ing.

It had been such a good evening that Har­ry’s good mood couldn’t even be spoiled by Mal­foy, who shout­ed through the crowd as they all left the Hall, ‘The De­men­tors send their love, Pot­ter!’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione fol­lowed the rest of the Gryffind­ors along the usu­al path to Gryffind­or Tow­er, but when they reached the cor­ri­dor which end­ed with the por­trait of the Fat La­dy, they found it jammed with stu­dents.

‘Why isn’t any­one go­ing in?’ said Ron cu­ri­ous­ly.

Har­ry peered over the heads in front of him. The por­trait seemed to be closed.

‘Let me through, please,’ came Per­cy’s voice, and he came bustling im­por­tant­ly through the crowd. ‘What’s the hold-​up here? You can’t all have for­got­ten the pass­word – ex­cuse me, I’m Head Boy –’

And then a si­lence fell over the crowd, from the front first, so that a chill seemed to spread down the cor­ri­dor. They heard Per­cy say, in a sud­den­ly sharp voice, ‘Some­body get Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore. Quick.’

Peo­ple’s heads turned; those at the back were stand­ing on tip­toe.

‘What’s go­ing on?’ said Gin­ny, who had just ar­rived.

Next mo­ment, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was there, sweep­ing to­wards the por­trait; the Gryffind­ors squeezed to­geth­er to let him through, and Har­ry, Ron and Hermione moved clos­er to see what the trou­ble was.

‘Oh, my –’ Hermione ex­claimed and grabbed Har­ry’s arm.

The Fat La­dy had van­ished from her por­trait, which had been slashed so vi­cious­ly that strips of can­vas lit­tered the floor; great chunks of it had been torn away com­plete­ly.

Dum­ble­dore took one quick look at the ru­ined paint­ing and turned, his eyes som­bre, to see Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Lupin and Snape hur­ry­ing to­wards him.

‘We need to find her,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, please go to Mr Filch at once and tell him to search ev­ery paint­ing in the cas­tle for the Fat La­dy.’

‘You’ll be lucky!’ said a cack­ling voice.

It was Peeves the poltergeist, bob­bing over the crowd and look­ing de­light­ed, as he al­ways did, at the sight of wreck­age or wor­ry.

‘What do you mean, Peeves?’ said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, and Peeves’s grin fad­ed a lit­tle. He didn’t dare taunt Dum­ble­dore. In­stead he adopt­ed an oily voice that was no bet­ter than his cack­le.

‘Ashamed, Your Head­ship, sir. Doesn’t want to be seen. She’s a hor­ri­ble mess. Saw her run­ning through the land­scape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodg­ing be­tween the trees. Cry­ing some­thing dread­ful,’ he said hap­pi­ly. ‘Poor thing,’ he added, un­con­vinc­ing­ly.

‘Did she say who did it?’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

‘Oh, yes, Pro­fes­sor­head,’ said Peeves, with the air of one cradling a large bomb­shell in his arms. ‘He got very an­gry when she wouldn’t let him in, you see.’ Peeves flipped over, and grinned at Dum­ble­dore from be­tween his own legs. ‘Nasty tem­per he’s got, that Sir­ius Black.’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER NINE


Grim De­feat



Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore sent all the Gryffind­ors back to the Great Hall, where they were joined ten min­utes lat­er by the stu­dents from Huf­flepuff, Raven­claw and Slytherin, who all looked ex­treme­ly con­fused.

‘The teach­ers and I need to con­duct a thor­ough search of the cas­tle,’ Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore told them as Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Flitwick closed all doors in­to the Hall. ‘I’m afraid that, for your own safe­ty, you will have to spend the night here. I want the Pre­fects to stand guard over the en­trances to the Hall and I am leav­ing the Head Boy and Girl in charge. Any dis­tur­bance should be re­port­ed to me im­me­di­ate­ly,’ he added to Per­cy, who was look­ing im­mense­ly proud and im­por­tant. ‘Send word with one of the ghosts.’

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore paused, about to the leave the Hall, and said, ‘Oh, yes, you’ll be need­ing …’

One ca­su­al wave of his wand and the long ta­bles flew to the edges of the Hall and stood them­selves against the walls; an­oth­er wave, and the floor was cov­ered with hun­dreds of squashy pur­ple sleep­ing bags.

‘Sleep well,’ said Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, clos­ing the door be­hind him.

The Hall im­me­di­ate­ly be­gan to buzz ex­cit­ed­ly; the Gryffind­ors were telling the rest of the school what had just hap­pened.

‘Ev­ery­one in­to their sleep­ing bags!’ shout­ed Per­cy. ‘Come on now, no more talk­ing! Lights out in ten min­utes!’

‘C’mon,’ Ron said to Har­ry and Hermione; they seized three sleep­ing bags and dragged them in­to a cor­ner.

‘Do you think Black’s still in the cas­tle?’ Hermione whis­pered anx­ious­ly.

‘Dum­ble­dore ob­vi­ous­ly thinks he might be,’ said Ron.

‘It’s very lucky he picked tonight, you know,’ said Hermione, as they climbed ful­ly dressed in­to their sleep­ing bags and propped them­selves on their el­bows to talk. ‘The one night we weren’t in the tow­er …’

‘I reck­on he’s lost track of time, be­ing on the run,’ said Ron. ‘Didn’t re­alise it was Hal­lowe’en. Oth­er­wise he’d have come burst­ing in here.’

Hermione shud­dered.

All around them, peo­ple were ask­ing each oth­er the same ques­tion: ‘How did he get in?’

‘Maybe he knows how to Ap­pa­rate,’ said a Raven­claw a few feet away. ‘Just ap­pear out of thin air, you know.’

‘Dis­guised him­self, prob­ably’ said a Huf­flepuff fifth-​year.

‘He could’ve flown in,’ sug­gest­ed Dean Thomas.

‘Hon­est­ly am I the on­ly per­son who’s ev­er both­ered to read Hog­warts, A His­to­ry?’ said Hermione cross­ly to Har­ry and Ron.

‘Prob­ably,’ said Ron. ‘Why?’

‘Be­cause the cas­tle’s pro­tect­ed by more than walls, you know,’ said Hermione. ‘There are all sorts of en­chant­ments on it, to stop peo­ple en­ter­ing by stealth. You can’t just Ap­pa­rate in here. And I’d like to see the dis­guise that could fool those De­men­tors. They’re guard­ing ev­ery sin­gle en­trance to the grounds. They’d have seen him fly in, too. And Filch knows all the se­cret pas­sages, they’ll have them cov­ered …’

‘The lights are go­ing out now!’ Per­cy shout­ed. ‘I want ev­ery­one in their sleep­ing bags and no more talk­ing!’

The can­dles all went out at once. The on­ly light now came from the sil­very ghosts, who were drift­ing about talk­ing se­ri­ous­ly to the Pre­fects, and the en­chant­ed ceil­ing, which, like the sky out­side, was scat­tered with stars. What with that, and the whis­per­ing that still filled the Hall, Har­ry felt as though he was sleep­ing out of doors in a light wind.

Once ev­ery hour, a teach­er would reap­pear in the Hall to check that ev­ery­thing was qui­et. Around three in the morn­ing, when many stu­dents had fi­nal­ly fall­en asleep, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore came in. Har­ry watched him look­ing around for Per­cy, who had been prowl­ing be­tween the sleep­ing bags, telling peo­ple off for talk­ing. Per­cy was on­ly a short way away from Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, who quick­ly pre­tend­ed to be asleep as Dum­ble­dore’s foot­steps drew near­er.

‘Any sign of him, Pro­fes­sor?’ asked Per­cy in a whis­per.

‘No. All well here?’

‘Ev­ery­thing un­der con­trol, sir.’

‘Good. There’s no point mov­ing them all now. I’ve found a tem­po­rary guardian for the Gryffind­or por­trait hole. You’ll be able to move them back in to­mor­row.’

‘And the Fat La­dy, sir?’

‘Hid­ing in a map of Ar­gyll­shire on the sec­ond floor. Ap­par­ent­ly she re­fused to let Black in with­out the pass­word, so he at­tacked. She’s still very dis­tressed, but once she’s calmed down, I’ll have Mr Filch re­store her.’

Har­ry heard the door of the Hall creak open again, and more foot­steps.

‘Head­mas­ter?’ It was Snape. Har­ry kept quite still, lis­ten­ing hard. ‘The whole of the third floor has been searched. He’s not there. And Filch has done the dun­geons; noth­ing there, ei­ther.’

‘What about the As­tron­omy tow­er? Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s room? The Owlery?’

‘All searched …’

‘Very well, Severus. I didn’t re­al­ly ex­pect Black to linger.’

‘Have you any the­ory as to how he got in, Pro­fes­sor?’ asked Snape.

Har­ry raised his head very slight­ly off his arms to free his oth­er ear.

‘Many Severus, each of them as un­like­ly as the next.’

Har­ry opened his eyes a frac­tion and squint­ed up to where they stood; Dum­ble­dore’s back was to him, but he could see Per­cy’s face, rapt with at­ten­tion, and Snape’s pro­file, which looked an­gry.

‘You re­mem­ber the con­ver­sa­tion we had, Head­mas­ter, just be­fore – ah – the start of term?’ said Snape, who was bare­ly open­ing his lips, as though try­ing to block Per­cy out of the con­ver­sa­tion.

‘I do, Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and there was some­thing like warn­ing in his voice.

‘It seems – al­most im­pos­si­ble – that Black could have en­tered the school with­out in­side help. I did ex­press my con­cerns when you ap­point­ed –’

‘I do not be­lieve a sin­gle per­son in­side this cas­tle would have helped Black en­ter it,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and his tone made it so clear that the sub­ject was closed that Snape didn’t re­ply. ‘I must go down to the De­men­tors,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘I said I would in­form them when our search was com­plete.’

‘Didn’t they want to help, sir?’ said Per­cy.

‘Oh yes,’ said Dum­ble­dore cold­ly. ‘But I’m afraid no De­men­tor will cross the thresh­old of this cas­tle while I am Head­mas­ter.’

Per­cy looked slight­ly abashed. Dum­ble­dore left the hall, walk­ing quick­ly and qui­et­ly. Snape stood for a mo­ment, watch­ing the Head­mas­ter with an ex­pres­sion of deep re­sent­ment on his face, then he, too, left.

Har­ry glanced side­ways at Ron and Hermione. Both of them had their eyes open, too, re­flect­ing the star­ry ceil­ing.

‘What was all that about?’ Ron mouthed.

*

The school talked of noth­ing but Sir­ius Black for the next few days. The the­ories about how he had en­tered the cas­tle be­came wilder and wilder; Han­nah Ab­bott, from Huf­flepuff, spent much of their next Her­bol­ogy class telling any­one who’d lis­ten that Black could turn in­to a flow­er­ing shrub.

The Fat La­dy’s ripped can­vas had been tak­en off the wall and re­placed with the por­trait of Sir Cado­gan and his fat grey pony. No­body was very hap­py about this. Sir Cado­gan spent half his time chal­leng­ing peo­ple to du­els, and the rest think­ing up ridicu­lous­ly com­pli­cat­ed pass­words, which he changed at least twice a day.

‘He’s bark­ing mad,’ said Sea­mus Finni­gan an­gri­ly to Per­cy. ‘Can’t we get any­one else?’

‘None of the oth­er pic­tures want­ed the job,’ said Per­cy. ‘Fright­ened of what hap­pened to the Fat La­dy. Sir Cado­gan was the on­ly one brave enough to vol­un­teer.’

Sir Cado­gan, how­ev­er, was the least of Har­ry’s wor­ries. He was now be­ing close­ly watched. Teach­ers found ex­cus­es to walk along cor­ri­dors with him and Per­cy Weasley (act­ing, Har­ry sus­pect­ed, on his moth­er’s or­ders) was tail­ing him ev­ery­where like an ex­treme­ly pompous guard dog. To cap it all, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sum­moned Har­ry in­to her of­fice, with such a som­bre ex­pres­sion on her face Har­ry thought some­one must have died.

‘There’s no point hid­ing it from you any longer, Pot­ter,’ she said, in a very se­ri­ous voice. ‘I know this will come as a shock to you, but Sir­ius Black –’

‘I know he’s af­ter me,’ said Har­ry weari­ly. ‘I heard Ron’s dad telling his mum. Mr Weasley works for the Min­istry of Mag­ic.’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall seemed very tak­en aback. She stared at Har­ry for a mo­ment or two, then said, ‘I see! Well, in that case, Pot­ter, you’ll un­der­stand why I don’t think it’s a good idea for you to be prac­tis­ing Quid­ditch in the evenings. Out on the pitch with on­ly your team mem­bers, it’s very ex­posed, Pot­ter –’

‘We’ve got our first match on Sat­ur­day!’ said Har­ry, out­raged. ‘I’ve got to train, Pro­fes­sor!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­sid­ered him in­tent­ly. Har­ry knew she was deeply in­ter­est­ed in the Gryffind­or team’s prospects; it had been she, af­ter all, who’d sug­gest­ed him as Seek­er in the first place. He wait­ed, hold­ing his breath.

‘Hmm …’ Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stood up and stared out of the win­dow at the Quid­ditch pitch, just vis­ible through the rain. ‘Well … good­ness knows, I’d like to see us win the cup at last … but all the same, Pot­ter … I’d be hap­pi­er if a teach­er were present. I’ll ask Madam Hooch to over­see your train­ing ses­sions.’

*

The weath­er wors­ened steadi­ly as the first Quid­ditch match drew near­er. Un­daunt­ed, the Gryffind­or team were train­ing hard­er than ev­er un­der the eye of Madam Hooch. Then, at their fi­nal train­ing ses­sion be­fore Sat­ur­day’s match, Oliv­er Wood gave his team some un­wel­come news.

‘We’re not play­ing Slytherin!’ he told them, look­ing very an­gry. ‘Flint’s just been to see me. We’re play­ing Huf­flepuff in­stead.’

‘Why?’ cho­rused the rest of the team.

‘Flint’s ex­cuse is that their Seek­er’s arm’s still in­jured,’ said Wood, grind­ing his teeth fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘But it’s ob­vi­ous why they’re do­ing it. Don’t want to play in this weath­er. Think it’ll dam­age their chances …’

There had been strong winds and heavy rain all day, and as Wood spoke, they heard a dis­tant rum­ble of thun­der.

‘There’s noth­ing wrong with Mal­foy’s arm!’ said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘He’s fak­ing it!’

‘I know that, but we can’t prove it,’ said Wood bit­ter­ly. ‘And we’ve been prac­tis­ing all those moves as­sum­ing we’re play­ing Slytherin, and in­stead it’s Huf­flepuff, and their style’s quite dif­fer­ent. They’ve got a new cap­tain and Seek­er, Cedric Dig­gory –’

An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie sud­den­ly gig­gled. ‘What?’ said Wood, frown­ing at this light-​heart­ed be­haviour.

‘He’s that tall, good-​look­ing one, isn’t he?’ said An­geli­na.

‘Strong and silent,’ said Katie, and they start­ed to gig­gle again.

‘He’s on­ly silent be­cause he’s too thick to string two words to­geth­er,’ said Fred im­pa­tient­ly. ‘I don’t know why you’re wor­ried, Oliv­er, Huf­flepuff are a pushover. Last time we played them, Har­ry caught the Snitch in about five min­utes, re­mem­ber?’

‘We were play­ing in com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent con­di­tions!’ Wood shout­ed, his eyes bulging slight­ly. ‘Dig­gory’s put a very strong side to­geth­er! He’s an ex­cel­lent Seek­er! I was afraid you’d take it like this! We mustn’t re­lax! We must keep our fo­cus! Slytherin are try­ing to wrong-​foot us! We must win!’

‘Oliv­er, calm down!’ said Fred, look­ing slight­ly alarmed. ‘We’re tak­ing Huf­flepuff very se­ri­ous­ly. Se­ri­ous­ly.’

*

The day be­fore the match, the winds reached howl­ing point and the rain fell hard­er than ev­er. It was so dark in­side the cor­ri­dors and class­rooms that ex­tra torch­es and lanterns were lit. The Slytherin team were look­ing very smug in­deed, and none more so than Mal­foy.

‘Ah, if on­ly my arm was feel­ing a bit bet­ter!’ he sighed, as the gale out­side pound­ed the win­dows.

Har­ry had no room in his head to wor­ry about any­thing ex­cept the match next day. Oliv­er Wood kept hur­ry­ing up to him be­tween class­es and giv­ing him tips. The third time this hap­pened, Wood talked for so long that Har­ry sud­den­ly re­alised he was ten min­utes late for De­fence Against the Dark Arts, and set off at a run with Wood shout­ing af­ter him, ‘Dig­gory’s got a very fast swerve, Har­ry, so you might want to try loop­ing him –’

Har­ry skid­ded to a halt out­side the De­fence Against the Dark Arts class­room, pulled the door open and dashed in­side.

‘Sor­ry I’m late, Pro­fes­sor Lupin, I –’

But it wasn’t Pro­fes­sor Lupin who looked up at him from the teach­er’s desk; it was Snape.

‘This les­son be­gan ten min­utes ago, Pot­ter, so I think we’ll make it ten points from Gryffind­or. Sit down.’

But Har­ry didn’t move.

‘Where’s Pro­fes­sor Lupin?’ he said.

‘He says he is feel­ing too ill to teach to­day,’ said Snape with a twist­ed smile. ‘I be­lieve I told you to sit down?’

But Har­ry stayed where he was.

‘What’s wrong with him?’

Snape’s black eyes glit­tered.

‘Noth­ing life-​threat­en­ing,’ he said, look­ing as though he wished it was. ‘Five more points from Gryffind­or, and if I have to ask you to sit down again, it will be fifty.’

Har­ry walked slow­ly to his seat and sat down. Snape looked around at the class.

‘As I was say­ing be­fore Pot­ter in­ter­rupt­ed, Pro­fes­sor Lupin has not left any record of the top­ics you have cov­ered so far –’

‘Please, sir, we’ve done Bog­garts, Red Caps, Kap­pas and Grindy­lows,’ said Hermione quick­ly, ‘and we’re just about to start –’

‘Be qui­et,’ said Snape cold­ly. ‘I did not ask for in­for­ma­tion. I was mere­ly com­ment­ing on Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s lack of or­gan­isa­tion.’

‘He’s the best De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er we’ve ev­er had,’ said Dean Thomas bold­ly, and there was a mur­mur of agree­ment from the rest of the class. Snape looked more men­ac­ing than ev­er.

‘You are eas­ily sat­is­fied. Lupin is hard­ly over-​tax­ing you – I would ex­pect first-​years to be able to deal with Red Caps and Grindy­lows. To­day we shall dis­cuss –’

Har­ry watched him flick through the text­book, to the very back chap­ter, which he must know they hadn’t cov­ered.

‘– were­wolves,’ said Snape.

‘But, sir,’ said Hermione, seem­ing­ly un­able to re­strain her­self, ‘we’re not sup­posed to do were­wolves yet, we’re due to start Hinky­punks –’

‘Miss Granger,’ said Snape, in a voice of dead­ly calm, ‘I was un­der the im­pres­sion that I was tak­ing this les­son, not you. And I am telling you all to turn to page three hun­dred and nine­ty-​four.’ He glanced around again. ‘All of you! Now!’

With many bit­ter side­long looks and some sullen mut­ter­ing, the class opened their books.

‘Which of you can tell me how we dis­tin­guish be­tween the were­wolf and the true wolf?’ said Snape.

Ev­ery­one sat in mo­tion­less si­lence; ev­ery­one ex­cept Hermione, whose hand, as it so of­ten did, had shot straight in­to the air.

‘Any­one?’ Snape said, ig­nor­ing Hermione. His twist­ed smile was back. ‘Are you telling me that Pro­fes­sor Lupin hasn’t even taught you the ba­sic dis­tinc­tion be­tween –’

‘We told you,’ said Par­vati sud­den­ly, ‘we haven’t got as far as were­wolves yet, we’re still on –’

‘Si­lence!’ snarled Snape. ‘Well, well, well, I nev­er thought I’d meet a third-​year class who wouldn’t even recog­nise a were­wolf when they saw one. I shall make a point of in­form­ing Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore how very be­hind you all are …’

‘Please, sir,’ said Hermione, whose hand was still in the air, ‘the were­wolf dif­fers from the true wolf in sev­er­al small ways. The snout of the were­wolf –’

‘That is the sec­ond time you have spo­ken out of turn, Miss Granger,’ said Snape cool­ly. ‘Five more points from Gryffind­or for be­ing an in­suf­fer­able know-​it-​all.’

Hermione went very red, put down her hand and stared at the floor with her eyes full of tears. It was a mark of how much the class loathed Snape that they were all glar­ing at him, be­cause ev­ery one of them had called Hermione a know-​it-​all at least once, and Ron, who told Hermione she was a know-​it-​all at least twice a week, said loud­ly, ‘You asked us a ques­tion and she knows the an­swer! Why ask if you don’t want to be told?’

The class knew in­stant­ly he’d gone too far. Snape ad­vanced on Ron slow­ly, and the room held its breath.

‘De­ten­tion, Weasley,’ Snape said silk­ily his face very close to Ron’s. ‘And if I ev­er hear you crit­icise the way I teach a class again, you will be very sor­ry in­deed.’

No one made a sound through­out the rest of the les­son. They sat and made notes on were­wolves from the text­book, while Snape prowled up and down the rows of desks, ex­am­in­ing the work they had been do­ing with Pro­fes­sor Lupin.

‘Very poor­ly ex­plained … that is in­cor­rect, the Kap­pa is more com­mon­ly found in Mon­go­lia … Pro­fes­sor Lupin gave this eight out of ten? I wouldn’t have giv­en it three …’

When the bell rang at last, Snape held them back.

‘You will each write an es­say, to be hand­ed in to me, on the ways you recog­nise and kill were­wolves. I want two rolls of parch­ment on the sub­ject, and I want them by Mon­day morn­ing. It is time some­body took this class in hand. Weasley, stay be­hind, we need to ar­range your de­ten­tion.’

Har­ry and Hermione left the room with the rest of the class, who wait­ed un­til they were well out of earshot, then burst in­to a fu­ri­ous tirade about Snape.

‘Snape’s nev­er been like this with any of our oth­er De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­ers, even if he did want the job,’ Har­ry said to Hermione. ‘Why’s he got it in for Lupin? D’you think this is all be­cause of the Bog­gart?’

‘I don’t know,’ said Hermione pen­sive­ly. ‘But I re­al­ly hope Pro­fes­sor Lupin gets bet­ter soon …’

Ron caught up with them five min­utes lat­er, in a tow­er­ing rage.

‘D’you know what that –’ (he called Snape some­thing that made Hermione say ‘Ron!’) ‘– is mak­ing me do? I’ve got to scrub out the bed­pans in the hos­pi­tal wing. With­out mag­ic!’ He was breath­ing deeply, his fists clenched. ‘Why couldn’t Black have hid­den in Snape’s of­fice, eh? He could have fin­ished him off for us!’

*

Har­ry woke ex­treme­ly ear­ly next morn­ing; so ear­ly that it was still dark. For a mo­ment he thought the roar­ing of the wind had wo­ken him, then he felt a cold breeze on the back of his neck and sat bolt up­right – Peeves the poltergeist had been float­ing next to him, blow­ing hard in his ear.

‘What did you do that for?’ said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly.

Peeves puffed out his cheeks, blew hard and zoomed back­wards out of the room, cack­ling.

Har­ry fum­bled for his alarm clock and looked at it. It was half past four. Curs­ing Peeves, he rolled over and tried to get back to sleep, but it was very dif­fi­cult, now he was awake, to ig­nore the sounds of the thun­der rum­bling over­head, the pound­ing of the wind against the cas­tle walls and the dis­tant creak­ing of the trees in the For­bid­den For­est. In a few hours he would be out on the Quid­ditch pitch, bat­tling through that gale. Fi­nal­ly he gave up any thought of more sleep, got up, dressed, picked up his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and walked qui­et­ly out of the dor­mi­to­ry.

As Har­ry opened the door, some­thing brushed against his leg. He bent down just in time to grab Crook­shanks by the end of his bushy tail, and drag him out­side.

‘You know, I reck­on Ron was right about you,’ Har­ry told Crook­shanks sus­pi­cious­ly. ‘There are plen­ty of mice around this place, go and chase them. Go on,’ he added, nudg­ing Crook­shanks down the spi­ral stair­case with his foot, ‘leave Scab­bers alone.’

The noise of the storm was even loud­er in the com­mon room. Har­ry knew bet­ter than to think the match would be can­celled; Quid­ditch match­es weren’t called off for tri­fles such as thun­der­storms. Nev­er­the­less, he was start­ing to feel very ap­pre­hen­sive. Wood had point­ed out Cedric Dig­gory to him in the cor­ri­dor; Dig­gory was a fifth year and a lot big­ger than Har­ry. Seek­ers were usu­al­ly light and speedy, but Dig­gory’s weight would be an ad­van­tage in this weath­er be­cause he was less like­ly to be blown off course.

Har­ry whiled away the hours un­til dawn in front of the fire, get­ting up ev­ery now and then to stop Crook­shanks sneak­ing up the boys’ stair­case again. At long last Har­ry thought it must be time for break­fast, so he head­ed through the por­trait hole alone.

‘Stand and fight, you mangy cur!’ yelled Sir Cado­gan.

‘Oh, shut up,’ Har­ry yawned.

He re­vived a bit over a large bowl of por­ridge, and by the time he’d start­ed on toast, the rest of the team had turned up.

‘It’s go­ing to be a tough one,’ said Wood, who wasn’t eat­ing any­thing.

‘Stop wor­ry­ing, Oliv­er,’ said Ali­cia sooth­ing­ly, ‘we don’t mind a bit of rain.’

But it was con­sid­er­ably more than a bit of rain. Such was the pop­ular­ity of Quid­ditch that the whole school turned out to watch the match as usu­al, but they ran down the lawns to­wards the Quid­ditch pitch, heads bowed against the fe­ro­cious wind, um­brel­las be­ing whipped out of their hands as they went. Just be­fore he en­tered the chang­ing room, Har­ry saw Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle laugh­ing and point­ing at him from un­der an enor­mous um­brel­la on their way to the sta­di­um.

The team changed in­to their scar­let robes and wait­ed for Wood’s usu­al pre-​match pep talk, but it didn’t come. He tried to speak sev­er­al times, made an odd gulp­ing noise, then shook his head hope­less­ly and beck­oned them to fol­low him.

The wind was so strong that they stag­gered side­ways as they walked out on­to the pitch. If the crowd was cheer­ing they couldn’t hear it over the fresh rolls of thun­der. Rain was splat­ter­ing over Har­ry’s glass­es. How on earth was he go­ing to see the Snitch in this?

The Huf­flepuffs were ap­proach­ing from the op­po­site side of the pitch, wear­ing ca­nary-​yel­low robes. The cap­tains walked up to each oth­er and shook hands; Dig­gory smiled at Wood but Wood now looked as though he had lock­jaw and mere­ly nod­ded. Har­ry saw Madam Hooch’s mouth form the words, ‘Mount your brooms.’ He pulled his right foot out of the mud with a squelch and swung it over his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand. Madam Hooch put her whis­tle to her lips and gave it a blast that sound­ed shrill and dis­tant – they were off.

Har­ry rose fast, but his Nim­bus was swerv­ing slight­ly with the wind. He held it as steady as he could and turned, squint­ing in­to the rain.

With­in five min­utes Har­ry was soaked to his skin and frozen, hard­ly able to see his team-​mates, let alone the tiny Snitch. He flew back­wards and for­wards across the pitch, past blurred red and yel­low shapes, with no idea of what was hap­pen­ing in the rest of the game. He couldn’t hear the com­men­tary over the wind. The crowd was hid­den be­neath a sea of cloaks and bat­tered um­brel­las. Twice Har­ry came very close to be­ing un­seat­ed by a Bludger; his vi­sion was so cloud­ed by the rain on his glass­es he hadn’t seen them com­ing.

He lost track of time. It was get­ting hard­er and hard­er to hold his broom straight. The sky was get­ting dark­er, as though night had de­cid­ed to come ear­ly. Twice Har­ry near­ly hit an­oth­er play­er, with­out know­ing whether it was a team-​mate or op­po­nent; ev­ery­one was now so wet, and the rain so thick, he could hard­ly tell them apart …

With the first flash of light­ning came the sound of Madam Hooch’s whis­tle; Har­ry could just see the out­line of Wood through the thick rain, ges­tur­ing him to the ground. The whole team splashed down in­to the mud.

‘I called for time out!’ Wood roared at his team. ‘Come on, un­der here –’ They hud­dled at the edge of the pitch un­der a large um­brel­la; Har­ry took off his glass­es and wiped them hur­ried­ly on his robes.

‘What’s the score?’

‘We’re fifty points up,’ said Wood, ‘but un­less we get the Snitch soon, we’ll be play­ing in­to the night.’

‘I’ve got no chance with these on,’ Har­ry said ex­as­per­at­ed­ly, wav­ing his glass­es.

At that very mo­ment, Hermione ap­peared at his shoul­der; she was hold­ing her cloak over her head and was, in­ex­pli­ca­bly, beam­ing.

‘I’ve had an idea, Har­ry! Give me your glass­es, quick!’

He hand­ed them to her and, as the team watched in amaze­ment, Hermione tapped them with her wand and said, ‘Im­per­vius!’

‘There!’ she said, hand­ing them back to Har­ry. ‘They’ll re­pel wa­ter!’

Wood looked as though he could have kissed her.

‘Bril­liant!’ he called hoarse­ly af­ter her, as she dis­ap­peared in­to the crowd. ‘OK, team, let’s go for it!’

Hermione’s spell had done the trick. Har­ry was still numb with cold, still wet­ter than he’d ev­er been in his life, but he could see. Full of fresh de­ter­mi­na­tion, he urged his broom through the tur­bu­lent air, star­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion for the Snitch, avoid­ing a Bludger, duck­ing be­neath Dig­gory, who was streak­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion …

There was an­oth­er clap of thun­der, fol­lowed im­me­di­ate­ly by forked light­ning. This was get­ting more and more dan­ger­ous. Har­ry need­ed to get the Snitch quick­ly –

He turned, in­tend­ing to head back to­wards the mid­dle of the pitch, but at that mo­ment, an­oth­er flash of light­ning il­lu­mi­nat­ed the stands, and Har­ry saw some­thing that dis­tract­ed him com­plete­ly: the sil­hou­ette of an enor­mous shag­gy black dog, clear­ly im­print­ed against the sky, mo­tion­less in the top­most, emp­ty row of seats.

Har­ry’s numb hands slipped on the broom han­dle and his Nim­bus dropped a few feet. Shak­ing his sod­den fringe out of his eyes, he squint­ed back in­to the stands. The dog had van­ished.

‘Har­ry!’ came Wood’s an­guished yell from the Gryffind­or goal­posts. ‘Har­ry, be­hind you!’

Har­ry looked wild­ly around. Cedric Dig­gory was pelt­ing up the pitch, and a tiny speck of gold was shim­mer­ing in the rain-​filled air be­tween them …

With a jolt of pan­ic, Har­ry threw him­self flat to the broom han­dle and zoomed to­wards the Snitch.

‘Come on!’ he growled at his Nim­bus, as the rain whipped his face. ‘Faster!’

But some­thing odd was hap­pen­ing. An eerie si­lence was falling across the sta­di­um. The wind, though as strong as ev­er, was for­get­ting to roar. It was as though some­one had turned off the sound, as though Har­ry had gone sud­den­ly deaf – what was go­ing on?

And then a hor­ri­bly fa­mil­iar wave of cold swept over him, in­side him, just as he be­came aware of some­thing mov­ing on the pitch be­low …

Be­fore he’d had time to think, Har­ry had tak­en his eyes off the Snitch and looked down.

At least a hun­dred De­men­tors, their hid­den faces point­ing up at him, were stand­ing be­low. It was as though freez­ing wa­ter was ris­ing in his chest, cut­ting at his in­sides. And then he heard it again … some­one was scream­ing, scream­ing in­side his head … a wom­an …

‘Not Har­ry, not Har­ry, please not Har­ry!’

‘Stand aside, you sil­ly girl … stand aside, now …’

‘Not Har­ry, please no, take me, kill me in­stead –’

Numb­ing, swirling white mist was fill­ing Har­ry’s brain … What was he do­ing? Why was he fly­ing? He need­ed to help her … she was go­ing to die … she was go­ing to be mur­dered …

He was falling, falling through the icy mist.

‘Not Har­ry! Please … have mer­cy … have mer­cy …’

A shrill voice was laugh­ing, the wom­an was scream­ing, and Har­ry knew no more.

*

‘Lucky the ground was so soft.’

‘I thought he was dead for sure.’

‘But he didn’t even break his glass­es.’

Har­ry could hear the voic­es whis­per­ing, but they made no sense what­so­ev­er. He didn’t have a clue where he was, or how he’d got there, or what he’d been do­ing be­fore he got there. All he knew was that ev­ery inch of him was aching as though it had been beat­en.

‘That was the scari­est thing I’ve ev­er seen in my life.’

Scari­est … the scari­est thing … hood­ed black fig­ures … cold … scream­ing …

Har­ry’s eyes snapped open. He was ly­ing in the hos­pi­tal wing. The Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team, spat­tered with mud from head to foot, was gath­ered around his bed. Ron and Hermione were al­so there, look­ing as though they’d just climbed out of a swim­ming pool.

‘Har­ry!’ said Fred, who looked ex­treme­ly white un­der­neath the mud. ‘How’re you feel­ing?’

It was as though Har­ry’s mem­ory was on fast for­ward. The light­ning … the Grim … the Snitch … and the De­men­tors …

‘What hap­pened?’ he said, sit­ting up so sud­den­ly they all gasped.

‘You fell off,’ said Fred. ‘Must’ve been – what – fifty feet?’

‘We thought you’d died,’ said Ali­cia, who was shak­ing.

Hermione made a small, squeaky noise. Her eyes were ex­treme­ly blood­shot.

‘But the match,’ said Har­ry. ‘What hap­pened? Are we hav­ing a re­play?’

No one said any­thing. The hor­ri­ble truth sank in­to Har­ry like a stone.

‘We didn’t – lose?’

‘Dig­gory got the Snitch,’ said George. ‘Just af­ter you fell. He didn’t re­alise what had hap­pened. When he looked back and saw you on the ground, he tried to call it off. Want­ed a re-​match. But they won fair and square … even Wood ad­mits it.’

‘Where is Wood?’ said Har­ry, sud­den­ly re­al­is­ing he wasn’t there.

‘Still in the show­ers,’ said Fred. ‘We think he’s try­ing to drown him­self.’

Har­ry put his face to his knees, his hands grip­ping his hair. Fred grabbed his shoul­der and shook it rough­ly.

‘C’mon, Har­ry, you’ve nev­er missed the Snitch be­fore.’

‘There had to be one time you didn’t get it,’ said George.

‘It’s not over yet,’ said Fred. ‘We lost by a hun­dred points, right? So if Huf­flepuff lose to Raven­claw and we beat Raven­claw and Slytherin …’

‘Huf­flepuff’ll have to lose by at least two hun­dred points,’ said George.

‘But if they beat Raven­claw …’

‘No way, Raven­claw are too good. But if Slytherin lose against Huf­flepuff …’

‘It all de­pends on the points – a mar­gin of a hun­dred ei­ther way –’

Har­ry lay there, not say­ing a word. They had lost … for the first time ev­er, he had lost a Quid­ditch match.

Af­ter ten min­utes or so, Madam Pom­frey came over to tell the team to leave him in peace.

‘We’ll come and see you lat­er,’ Fred told him. ‘Don’t beat your­self up, Har­ry, you’re still the best Seek­er we’ve ev­er had.’

The team trooped out, trail­ing mud be­hind them. Madam Pom­frey shut the door be­hind them look­ing dis­ap­prov­ing. Ron and Hermione moved near­er to Har­ry’s bed.

‘Dum­ble­dore was re­al­ly an­gry,’ Hermione said in a quak­ing voice. ‘I’ve nev­er seen him like that be­fore. He ran on­to the pitch as you fell, waved his wand, and you sort of slowed down be­fore you hit the ground. Then he whirled his wand at the De­men­tors. Shot sil­ver stuff at them. They left the sta­di­um straight away … he was fu­ri­ous they’d come in­to the grounds, we heard him –’

‘Then he mag­icked you on­to a stretch­er,’ said Ron. ‘And walked up to school with you float­ing on it. Ev­ery­one thought you were …’

His voice fad­ed away, but Har­ry hard­ly no­ticed. He was think­ing about what the De­men­tors had done to him … about the scream­ing voice. He looked up and saw Ron and Hermione look­ing at him so anx­ious­ly that he quick­ly cast around for some­thing mat­ter-​of-​fact to say.

‘Did some­one get my Nim­bus?’

Ron and Hermione looked quick­ly at each oth­er.

‘Er –’

‘What?’ said Har­ry, look­ing from one to the oth­er.

‘Well … when you fell off, it got blown away,’ said Hermione hes­itant­ly.

‘And?’

‘And it hit – it hit – oh, Har­ry – it hit the Whomp­ing Wil­low.’

Har­ry’s in­sides lurched. The Whomp­ing Wil­low was a very vi­olent tree which stood alone in the mid­dle of the grounds.

‘And?’ he said, dread­ing the an­swer.

‘Well, you know the Whomp­ing Wil­low,’ said Ron. ‘It – it doesn’t like be­ing hit.’

‘Pro­fes­sor Flitwick brought it back just be­fore you came round,’ said Hermione in a very small voice.

Slow­ly, she reached down for a bag at her feet, turned it up­side-​down and tipped a dozen bits of splin­tered wood and twig on­to the bed, the on­ly re­mains of Har­ry’s faith­ful, fi­nal­ly beat­en broom­stick.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TEN


The Ma­raud­er’s Map



Madam Pom­frey in­sist­ed on keep­ing Har­ry in the hos­pi­tal wing for the rest of the week­end. He didn’t ar­gue or com­plain, but he wouldn’t let her throw away the shat­tered rem­nants of his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand. He knew he was be­ing stupid, knew that the Nim­bus was be­yond re­pair, but Har­ry couldn’t help it; he felt as though he’d lost one of his best friends.

He had a stream of vis­itors, all in­tent on cheer­ing him up. Ha­grid sent him a bunch of ear­wig­gy flow­ers that looked like yel­low cab­bages and Gin­ny Weasley, blush­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, turned up with a ‘get well’ card she had made her­self, which sang shril­ly un­less Har­ry kept it shut un­der his bowl of fruit. The Gryffind­or team vis­it­ed again on Sun­day morn­ing, this time ac­com­pa­nied by Wood, who told Har­ry, in a hol­low, dead sort of voice, that he didn’t blame him in the slight­est. Ron and Hermione on­ly left Har­ry’s bed­side at night. But noth­ing any­one said or did could make Har­ry feel any bet­ter, be­cause they on­ly knew half of what was trou­bling him.

He hadn’t told any­one about the Grim, not even Ron and Hermione, be­cause he knew Ron would pan­ic and Hermione would scoff. The fact re­mained, how­ev­er, that it had now ap­peared twice, and both ap­pear­ances had been fol­lowed by near-​fa­tal ac­ci­dents; the first time, he had near­ly been run over by the Knight Bus; the sec­ond, fall­en fifty feet from his broom­stick. Was the Grim go­ing to haunt him un­til he ac­tu­al­ly died? Was he go­ing to spend the rest of his life look­ing over his shoul­der for the beast?

And then there were the De­men­tors. Har­ry felt sick and hu­mil­iat­ed ev­ery time he thought of them. Ev­ery­one said the De­men­tors were hor­ri­ble, but no one else col­lapsed ev­ery time they went near one … no one else heard echoes in their head of their dy­ing par­ents.

For Har­ry knew who that scream­ing voice be­longed to now. He had heard her words, heard them over and over again dur­ing the night hours in the hos­pi­tal wing while he lay awake, star­ing at the strips of moon­light on the ceil­ing. When the De­men­tors ap­proached him, he heard the last mo­ments of his moth­er’s life, her at­tempts to pro­tect him, Har­ry, from Lord Volde­mort, and Volde­mort’s laugh­ter be­fore he mur­dered her … Har­ry dozed fit­ful­ly, sink­ing in­to dreams full of clam­my, rot­ted hands and pet­ri­fied plead­ing, jerk­ing awake on­ly to dwell again on the sound of his moth­er’s voice.

*

It was a re­lief to re­turn on Mon­day to the noise and bus­tle of the main school, where he was forced to think about oth­er things, even if he had to en­dure Dra­co Mal­foy’s taunt­ing. Mal­foy was al­most be­side him­self with glee at Gryffind­or’s de­feat. He had fi­nal­ly tak­en off his ban­dages, and cel­ebrat­ed hav­ing the full use of both arms again by do­ing spir­it­ed im­ita­tions of Har­ry falling off his broom. Mal­foy spent much of their next Po­tions class do­ing De­men­tor im­ita­tions across the dun­geon; Ron fi­nal­ly cracked, fling­ing a large, slip­pery crocodile heart at Mal­foy, which hit him in the face and caused Snape to take fifty points from Gryffind­or.

‘If Snape’s tak­ing De­fence Against the Dark Arts again, I’m go­ing off sick,’ said Ron, as they head­ed to­wards Lupin’s class­room af­ter lunch. ‘Check who’s in there, Hermione.’

Hermione peered around the class­room door.

‘It’s OK!’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin was back at work. It cer­tain­ly looked as though he had been ill. His old robes were hang­ing more loose­ly on him and there were dark shad­ows be­neath his eyes; nev­er­the­less, he smiled at the class as they took their seats, and they burst at once in­to an ex­plo­sion of com­plaints about Snape’s be­haviour while Lupin had been ill.

‘It’s not fair, he was on­ly fill­ing in, why should he set us home­work?’

‘We don’t know any­thing about were­wolves –’

‘– two rolls of parch­ment!’

‘Did you tell Pro­fes­sor Snape we haven’t cov­ered them yet?’ Lupin asked, frown­ing slight­ly.

The bab­ble broke out again.

‘Yes, but he said we were re­al­ly be­hind –’

‘– he wouldn’t lis­ten –’

‘– two rolls of parch­ment!’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin smiled at the look of in­dig­na­tion on ev­ery face.

‘Don’t wor­ry. I’ll speak to Pro­fes­sor Snape. You don’t have to do the es­say.’

‘Oh no,’ said Hermione, look­ing very dis­ap­point­ed. ‘I’ve al­ready fin­ished it!’

They had a very en­joy­able les­son. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had brought along a glass box con­tain­ing a Hinky­punk, a lit­tle one-​legged crea­ture who seemed as though he was made of wisps of smoke, rather frail and harm­less-​look­ing.

‘Lures trav­ellers in­to bogs,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin, as they took notes. ‘You no­tice the lantern dan­gling from his hand? Hops ahead – peo­ple fol­low the light – then –’

The Hinky­punk made a hor­ri­ble squelch­ing noise against the glass.

When the bell rang, ev­ery­one gath­ered up their things and head­ed for the door, Har­ry amongst them, but –

‘Wait a mo­ment, Har­ry,’ Lupin called, ‘I’d like a word.’

Har­ry dou­bled back and watched Pro­fes­sor Lupin cov­er­ing the Hinky­punk’s box with a cloth.

‘I heard about the match,’ said Lupin, turn­ing back to his desk and start­ing to pile books in­to his brief­case, ‘and I’m sor­ry about your broom­stick. Is there any chance of fix­ing it?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry. ‘The tree smashed it to bits.’

Lupin sighed.

‘They plant­ed the Whomp­ing Wil­low the same year that I ar­rived at Hog­warts. Peo­ple used to play a game, try­ing to get near enough to touch the trunk. In the end, a boy called Dav­ey Gud­geon near­ly lost an eye, and we were for­bid­den to go near it. No broom­stick would have a chance.’

‘Did you hear about the De­men­tors, too?’ said Har­ry with dif­fi­cul­ty.

Lupin looked at him quick­ly.

‘Yes, I did. I don’t think any of us have seen Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore that an­gry. They have been grow­ing rest­less for some time … fu­ri­ous at his re­fusal to let them in­side the grounds … I sup­pose they were the rea­son you fell?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. He hes­itat­ed, and then the ques­tion he had to ask burst from him be­fore he could stop him­self. ‘Why? Why do they af­fect me like that? Am I just –?’

‘It has noth­ing to do with weak­ness,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin sharply, as though he had read Har­ry’s mind. ‘The De­men­tors af­fect you worse than the oth­ers be­cause there are hor­rors in your past that the oth­ers don’t have.’

A ray of win­try sun­light fell across the class­room, il­lu­mi­nat­ing Lupin’s grey hairs and the lines on his young face.

‘De­men­tors are among the foulest crea­tures that walk this earth. They in­fest the dark­est, filth­iest places, they glo­ry in de­cay and de­spair, they drain peace, hope and hap­pi­ness out of the air around them. Even Mug­gles feel their pres­ence, though they can’t see them. Get too near a De­men­tor and ev­ery good feel­ing, ev­ery hap­py mem­ory, will be sucked out of you. If it can, the De­men­tor will feed on you long enough to re­duce you to some­thing like it­self – soul­less and evil. You’ll be left with noth­ing but the worst ex­pe­ri­ences of your life. And the worst that has hap­pened to you, Har­ry, is enough to make any­one fall off their broom. You have noth­ing to feel ashamed of.’

‘When they get near me –’ Har­ry stared at Lupin’s desk, his throat tight, ‘I can hear Volde­mort mur­der­ing my mum.’

Lupin made a sud­den mo­tion with his arm as though he had made to grip Har­ry’s shoul­der, but thought bet­ter of it. There was a mo­ment’s si­lence; then –

‘Why did they have to come to the match?’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

‘They’re get­ting hun­gry,’ said Lupin cool­ly, shut­ting his brief­case with a snap. ‘Dum­ble­dore won’t let them in­to the school, so their sup­ply of hu­man prey has dried up … I don’t think they could re­sist the large crowd around the Quid­ditch pitch. All that ex­cite­ment … emo­tions run­ning high … it was their idea of a feast.’

‘Azk­aban must be ter­ri­ble,’ Har­ry mut­tered. Lupin nod­ded grim­ly.

‘The fortress is set on a tiny is­land, way out to sea, but they don’t need walls and wa­ter to keep the pris­on­ers in, not when they’re all trapped in­side their own heads, in­ca­pable of a sin­gle cheer­ful thought. Most of them go mad with­in weeks.’

‘But Sir­ius Black es­caped from them,’ Har­ry said slow­ly. ‘He got away …’

Lupin’s brief­case slipped from the desk; he had to stoop quick­ly to catch it.

‘Yes,’ he said, straight­en­ing up. ‘Black must have found a way to fight them. I wouldn’t have be­lieved it pos­si­ble … De­men­tors are sup­posed to drain a wiz­ard of his pow­ers if he is left with them too long …’

‘You made that De­men­tor on the train back off,’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly.

‘There are – cer­tain de­fences one can use,’ said Lupin. ‘But there was on­ly one De­men­tor on the train. The more there are, the more dif­fi­cult it be­comes to re­sist.’

‘What de­fences?’ said Har­ry at once. ‘Can you teach me?’

‘I don’t pre­tend to be an ex­pert at fight­ing De­men­tors, Har­ry – quite the con­trary …’

‘But if the De­men­tors come to an­oth­er Quid­ditch match, I need to be able to fight them –’

Lupin looked in­to Har­ry’s de­ter­mined face, hes­itat­ed, then said, ‘Well … all right. I’ll try and help. But it’ll have to wait un­til next term, I’m afraid. I have a lot to do be­fore the hol­idays. I chose a very in­con­ve­nient time to fall ill.’

*

What with the promise of An­ti-​De­men­tor lessons from Lupin, the thought that he might nev­er have to hear his moth­er’s death again, and the fact that Raven­claw flat­tened Huf­flepuff in their Quid­ditch match at the end of Novem­ber, Har­ry’s mood took a def­inite up­turn. Gryffind­or were not out of the run­ning af­ter all, al­though they could not af­ford to lose an­oth­er match. Wood be­came re­pos­sessed of his man­ic en­er­gy, and worked his team as hard as ev­er in the chilly haze of rain that per­sist­ed in­to De­cem­ber. Har­ry saw no hint of a De­men­tor with­in the grounds. Dum­ble­dore’s anger seemed to be keep­ing them at their sta­tions at the en­trances.

Two weeks be­fore the end of term, the sky light­ened sud­den­ly to a daz­zling, opa­line white and the mud­dy grounds were re­vealed one morn­ing cov­ered in glit­ter­ing frost. In­side the cas­tle, there was a buzz of Christ­mas in the air. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, the Charms teach­er, had al­ready dec­orat­ed his class­room with shim­mer­ing lights that turned out to be re­al, flut­ter­ing fairies. The stu­dents were all hap­pi­ly dis­cussing their plans for the hol­idays. Both Ron and Hermione had de­cid­ed to re­main at Hog­warts, and though Ron said it was be­cause he couldn’t stand two weeks with Per­cy, and Hermione in­sist­ed she need­ed to use the li­brary, Har­ry wasn’t fooled; they were do­ing it to keep him com­pa­ny, and he was very grate­ful.

To ev­ery­one’s de­light ex­cept Har­ry’s, there was to be an­oth­er Hogsmeade trip on the very last week­end of term.

‘We can do all our Christ­mas shop­ping there!’ said Hermione. ‘Mum and Dad would re­al­ly love those Tooth­floss­ing String­mints from Hon­ey­dukes!’

Re­signed to the fact that he would be the on­ly third-​year stay­ing be­hind again, Har­ry bor­rowed a copy of Which Broom­stick from Wood, and de­cid­ed to spend the day read­ing up on the dif­fer­ent makes. He had been rid­ing one of the school brooms at team prac­tice, an an­cient Shoot­ing Star, which was very slow and jerky; he def­inite­ly need­ed a new broom of his own.

On the Sat­ur­day morn­ing of the Hogsmeade trip, Har­ry bid good­bye to Ron and Hermione, who were wrapped in cloaks and scarves, then turned up the mar­ble stair­case alone, and head­ed back to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er. Snow had start­ed to fall out­side the win­dows, and the cas­tle was very still and qui­et.

‘Psst – Har­ry!’

He turned, halfway along the third-​floor cor­ri­dor, to see Fred and George peer­ing out at him from be­hind a stat­ue of a hump­backed, one-​eyed witch.

‘What are you do­ing?’ said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly. ‘How come you’re not go­ing to Hogsmeade?’

‘We’ve come to give you a bit of fes­tive cheer be­fore we go,’ said Fred, with a mys­te­ri­ous wink. ‘Come in here …’

He nod­ded to­wards an emp­ty class­room to the left of the one-​eyed stat­ue. Har­ry fol­lowed Fred and George in­side. George closed the door qui­et­ly and then turned, beam­ing, to look at Har­ry.

‘Ear­ly Christ­mas present for you, Har­ry,’ he said.

Fred pulled some­thing from in­side his cloak with a flour­ish and laid it on one of the desks. It was a large, square, very worn piece of parch­ment with noth­ing writ­ten on it. Har­ry, sus­pect­ing one of Fred and George’s jokes, stared at it.

‘What’s that sup­posed to be?’

‘This, Har­ry, is the se­cret of our suc­cess,’ said George, pat­ting the parch­ment fond­ly.

‘It’s a wrench, giv­ing it to you,’ said Fred, ‘but we de­cid­ed last night, your need’s greater than ours.’

‘Any­way, we know it off by heart,’ said George. ‘We be­queath it to you. We don’t re­al­ly need it any more.’

‘And what do I need with a bit of old parch­ment?’ said Har­ry.

‘A bit of old parch­ment!’ said Fred, clos­ing his eyes with a gri­mace as though Har­ry had mor­tal­ly of­fend­ed him. ‘Ex­plain, George.’

‘Well … when we were in our first year, Har­ry – young, care­free and in­no­cent –’

Har­ry snort­ed. He doubt­ed whether Fred and George had ev­er been in­no­cent.

‘– well, more in­no­cent than we are now – we got in­to a spot of both­er with Filch.’

‘We let off a Dung­bomb in the cor­ri­dor and it up­set him for some rea­son –’

‘So he hauled us off to his of­fice and start­ed threat­en­ing us with the usu­al –’

‘– de­ten­tion –’

‘– dis­em­bow­el­ment –’

‘– and we couldn’t help notic­ing a draw­er in one of his fil­ing cab­inets marked Con­fis­cat­ed and High­ly Dan­ger­ous.’

‘Don’t tell me –’ said Har­ry, start­ing to grin.

‘Well, what would you’ve done?’ said Fred. ‘George caused a di­ver­sion by drop­ping an­oth­er Dung­bomb, I whipped the draw­er open and grabbed – this.’

‘It’s not as bad as it sounds, you know,’ said George. ‘We don’t reck­on Filch ev­er found out how to work it. He prob­ably sus­pect­ed what it was, though, or he wouldn’t have con­fis­cat­ed it.’

‘And you know how to work it?’

‘Oh yes,’ said Fred, smirk­ing. ‘This lit­tle beau­ty’s taught us more than all the teach­ers in this school.’

‘You’re wind­ing me up,’ said Har­ry, look­ing at the ragged old bit of parch­ment.

‘Oh, are we?’ said George.

He took out his wand, touched the parch­ment light­ly and said, ‘I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good.’

And at once, thin ink lines be­gan to spread like a spi­der’s web from the point that George’s wand had touched. They joined each oth­er, they criss-​crossed, they fanned in­to ev­ery cor­ner of the parch­ment; then words be­gan to blos­som across the top, great, curly green words, that pro­claimed:

Messrs Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs Pur­vey­ors of Aids to Mag­ical Mis­chief-​Mak­ers

are proud to present

THE MA­RAUD­ER’S MAP

It was a map show­ing ev­ery de­tail of the Hog­warts cas­tle and grounds. But the tru­ly re­mark­able thing was the tiny ink dots mov­ing around it, each la­belled with a name in mi­nus­cule writ­ing. As­tound­ed, Har­ry bent over it. A la­belled dot in the top left cor­ner showed that Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was pac­ing his study; the care­tak­er’s cat, Mrs Nor­ris, was prowl­ing the sec­ond floor, and Peeves the poltergeist was cur­rent­ly bounc­ing around the tro­phy room. And as Har­ry’s eyes trav­elled up and down the fa­mil­iar cor­ri­dors, he no­ticed some­thing else.

This map showed a set of pas­sages he had nev­er en­tered. And many of them seemed to lead –

‘Right in­to Hogsmeade,’ said Fred, trac­ing one of them with his fin­ger. ‘There are sev­en in all. Now, Filch knows about these four –’ he point­ed them out, ‘– but we’re sure we’re the on­ly ones who know about these. Don’t both­er with the one be­hind the mir­ror on the fourth floor. We used it un­til last win­ter, but it’s caved in – com­plete­ly blocked. And we don’t reck­on any­one’s ev­er used this one, be­cause the Whomp­ing Wil­low’s plant­ed right over the en­trance. But this one here, this one leads right in­to the cel­lar of Hon­ey­dukes. We’ve used it loads of times. And as you might’ve no­ticed, the en­trance is right out­side this room, through that one-​eyed old crone’s hump.’

‘Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs,’ sighed George, pat­ting the head­ing of the map. ‘We owe them so much.’

‘No­ble men, work­ing tire­less­ly to help a new gen­er­ation of law­break­ers,’ said Fred solemn­ly.

‘Right,’ said George briskly, ‘don’t for­get to wipe it af­ter you’ve used it –’

‘– or any­one can read it,’ Fred said warn­ing­ly.

‘Just tap it again and say, ‘Mis­chief man­aged!’ And it’ll go blank.’

‘So, young Har­ry,’ said Fred, in an un­can­ny im­per­son­ation of Per­cy, ‘mind you be­have your­self.’

‘See you in Hon­ey­dukes,’ said George, wink­ing.

They left the room, both smirk­ing in a sat­is­fied sort of way.

Har­ry stood there, gaz­ing at the mirac­ulous map. He watched the tiny ink Mrs Nor­ris turn left and pause to sniff at some­thing on the floor. If Filch re­al­ly didn’t know … he wouldn’t have to pass the De­men­tors at all …

But even as he stood there, flood­ed with ex­cite­ment, some­thing Har­ry had once heard Mr Weasley say came float­ing out of his mem­ory.

Nev­er trust any­thing that can think for it­self, if you can’t see where it keeps its brain.

This map was one of those dan­ger­ous mag­ical ob­jects Mr Weasley had been warn­ing against … Aids for Mag­ical Mis­chief-​Mak­ers … but then, Har­ry rea­soned, he on­ly want­ed to use it to get in­to Hogsmeade, it wasn’t as though he want­ed to steal any­thing or at­tack any­one … and Fred and George had been us­ing it for years with­out any­thing hor­ri­ble hap­pen­ing …

Har­ry traced the se­cret pas­sage to Hon­ey­dukes with his fin­ger.

Then, quite sud­den­ly, as though fol­low­ing or­ders, he rolled up the map, stuffed it in­side his robes, and hur­ried to the door of the class­room. He opened it a cou­ple of inch­es. There was no one out­side. Very care­ful­ly, he edged out of the room and slipped be­hind the stat­ue of the one-​eyed witch.

What did he have to do? He pulled out the map again and saw, to his as­ton­ish­ment, that a new ink fig­ure had ap­peared up­on it, la­belled ‘Har­ry Pot­ter’. This fig­ure was stand­ing ex­act­ly where the re­al Har­ry was stand­ing, about halfway down the third-​floor cor­ri­dor. Har­ry watched care­ful­ly. His lit­tle ink self ap­peared to be tap­ping the witch with his minute wand. Har­ry quick­ly took out his re­al wand and tapped the stat­ue. Noth­ing hap­pened. He looked back at the map. The tini­est speech bub­ble had ap­peared next to his fig­ure. The word in­side said ‘Dis­sendi­um’.

‘Dis­sendi­um!’ Har­ry whis­pered, tap­ping the stone witch again.

At once, the stat­ue’s hump opened wide enough to ad­mit a fair­ly thin per­son. Har­ry glanced quick­ly up and down the cor­ri­dor, then tucked the map away again, hoist­ed him­self in­to the hole head­first, and pushed him­self for­wards.

He slid a con­sid­er­able way down what felt like a stone slide, then land­ed on cold, damp earth. He stood up, look­ing around. It was pitch dark. He held up his wand, mut­tered, ‘Lu­mos!’ and saw that he was in a very nar­row, low, earthy pas­sage­way. He raised the map, tapped it with the tip of his wand and mut­tered, ‘Mis­chief man­aged!’ The map went blank at once. He fold­ed it care­ful­ly, tucked it in­side his robes, then, heart beat­ing fast, both ex­cit­ed and ap­pre­hen­sive, he set off.

The pas­sage twist­ed and turned, more like the bur­row of a gi­ant rab­bit than any­thing else. Har­ry hur­ried along it, stum­bling now and then on the un­even floor, hold­ing his wand out in front of him.

It took ages, but Har­ry had the thought of Hon­ey­dukes to sus­tain him. Af­ter what felt like an hour, the pas­sage be­gan to rise. Pant­ing, Har­ry sped up, his face hot, his feet very cold.

Ten min­utes lat­er, he came to the foot of some worn, stone steps which rose out of sight above him. Care­ful not to make any noise, Har­ry be­gan to climb. A hun­dred steps, two hun­dred steps, he lost count as he climbed, watch­ing his feet … then, with­out warn­ing, his head hit some­thing hard.

It seemed to be a trap­door. Har­ry stood there, mas­sag­ing the top of his head, lis­ten­ing. He couldn’t hear any sounds above him. Very slow­ly, he pushed the trap­door open and peered over the edge.

He was in a cel­lar which was full of wood­en crates and box­es. Har­ry climbed out of the trap­door and re­placed it – it blend­ed so per­fect­ly with the dusty floor that it was im­pos­si­ble to tell it was there. Har­ry crept slow­ly to­wards the wood­en stair­case that led up­stairs. Now he could def­inite­ly hear voic­es, not to men­tion the tin­kle of a bell and the open­ing and shut­ting of a door.

Won­der­ing what he ought to do, he sud­den­ly heard a door open much clos­er at hand; some­body was about to come down­stairs.

‘And get an­oth­er box of Jel­ly Slugs, dear, they’ve near­ly cleaned us out –’ said a wom­an’s voice.

A pair of feet was com­ing down the stair­case. Har­ry leapt be­hind an enor­mous crate and wait­ed for the foot­steps to pass. He heard the man shift­ing box­es against the wall op­po­site. He might not get an­oth­er chance –

Quick­ly and silent­ly, Har­ry dodged out from his hid­ing place and climbed the stairs; look­ing back, he saw an enor­mous back­side and a shiny bald head buried in a box. Har­ry reached the door at the top of the stairs, slipped through it, and found him­self be­hind the counter of Hon­ey­dukes – he ducked, crept side­ways and then straight­ened up.

Hon­ey­dukes was so crowd­ed with Hog­warts stu­dents that no one looked twice at Har­ry. He edged amongst them, look­ing around, and sup­pressed a laugh as he imag­ined the look that would spread over Dud­ley’s pig­gy face if he could see where Har­ry was now.

There were shelves up­on shelves of the most suc­cu­lent-​look­ing sweets imag­in­able. Creamy chunks of nougat, shim­mer­ing pink squares of co­conut ice, fat, hon­ey-​coloured tof­fees; hun­dreds of dif­fer­ent kinds of choco­late in neat rows; there was a large bar­rel of Ev­ery Flavour Beans, and an­oth­er of Fizzing Whizzbees, the lev­itat­ing sher­bert balls that Ron had men­tioned; along yet an­oth­er wall were ‘Spe­cial Ef­fects’ sweets: Droobles Best Blow­ing Gum (which filled a room with blue­bell-​coloured bub­bles that re­fused to pop for days), the strange, splin­tery Tooth­floss­ing String­mints, tiny black Pep­per Imps (‘breathe fire for your friends!’), Ice Mice (‘hear your teeth chat­ter and squeak!’), pep­per­mint creams shaped like toads (‘hop re­al­is­ti­cal­ly in the stom­ach!’), frag­ile sug­ar-​spun quills and ex­plod­ing bon­bons.

Har­ry squeezed him­self through a crowd of sixth-​years and saw a sign hang­ing in the fur­thest cor­ner of the shop (‘Un­usu­al Tastes’). Ron and Hermione were stand­ing un­der­neath it, ex­am­in­ing a tray of blood-​flavoured lol­lipops. Har­ry sneaked up be­hind them.

‘Urgh, no, Har­ry won’t want one of those, they’re for vam­pires, I ex­pect,’ Hermione was say­ing.

‘How about these?’ said Ron, shov­ing a jar of Cock­roach Clus­ter un­der Hermione’s nose.

‘Def­inite­ly not,’ said Har­ry.

Ron near­ly dropped the jar.

‘Har­ry!’ squealed Hermione. ‘What are you do­ing here? How – how did you –?’

‘Wow!’ said Ron, look­ing very im­pressed. ‘You’ve learned to Ap­pa­rate!’

‘’Course I haven’t,’ said Har­ry. He dropped his voice so that none of the sixth-​years could hear him and told them all about the Ma­raud­er’s Map.

‘How come Fred and George nev­er gave it to me!’ said Ron, out­raged. ‘I’m their broth­er!’

‘But Har­ry isn’t go­ing to keep it!’ said Hermione, as though the idea was lu­di­crous. ‘He’s go­ing to hand it in to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, aren’t you, Har­ry?’

‘No, I’m not!’ said Har­ry.

‘Are you mad?’ said Ron, gog­gling at Hermione. ‘Hand in some­thing that good?’

‘If I hand it in, I’ll have to say where I got it! Filch would know Fred and George nicked it!’

‘But what about Sir­ius Black?’ Hermione hissed. ‘He could be us­ing one of the pas­sages on that map to get in­to the cas­tle! The teach­ers have got to know!’

‘He can’t be get­ting in through a pas­sage,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘There are sev­en se­cret tun­nels on the map, right? Fred and George reck­on Filch al­ready knows about four of them. And the oth­er three – one of them’s caved in, so no one can get through it. One of them’s got the Whomp­ing Wil­low plant­ed over the en­trance, so you can’t get out of it. And the one I just came through – well – it’s re­al­ly hard to see the en­trance to it down in the cel­lar – so un­less he knew it was there –’

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. What if Black did know the pas­sage was there? Ron, how­ev­er, cleared his throat sig­nif­icant­ly, and point­ed to a no­tice past­ed on the in­side of the sweet­shop door.



BY OR­DER OF THE MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC

Cus­tomers are re­mind­ed that un­til fur­ther no­tice, De­men­tors will be pa­trolling the streets of Hogsmeade ev­ery night af­ter sun­down. This mea­sure has been put in place for the safe­ty of Hogsmeade res­idents and will be lift­ed up­on the re­cap­ture of Sir­ius Black. It is there­fore ad­vis­able that you com­plete your shop­ping well be­fore night­fall.

Mer­ry Christ­mas!



‘See?’ said Ron qui­et­ly. ‘I’d like to see Black try and break in­to Hon­ey­dukes with De­men­tors swarm­ing all over the vil­lage. Any­way, Hermione, the Hon­ey­dukes own­ers would hear a break in, wouldn’t they? They live over the shop!’

‘Yes, but – but –’ Hermione seemed to be strug­gling to find an­oth­er prob­lem. ‘Look, Har­ry still shouldn’t be com­ing in­to Hogsmeade, he hasn’t got a signed form! If any­one finds out, he’ll be in so much trou­ble! And it’s not night­fall yet – what if Sir­ius Black turns up to­day? Now?’

‘He’d have a job spot­ting Har­ry in this,’ said Ron, nod­ding through the mul­lioned win­dows at the thick, swirling snow.

‘Come on, Hermione, it’s Christ­mas, Har­ry de­serves a break.’

Hermione bit her lip, look­ing ex­treme­ly wor­ried.

‘Are you go­ing to re­port me?’ Har­ry asked her, grin­ning.

‘Oh – of course not – but hon­est­ly, Har­ry –’

‘Seen the Fizzing Whizzbees, Har­ry?’ said Ron, grab­bing him and lead­ing him over to their bar­rel. ‘And the Jel­ly Slugs? And the Acid Pops? Fred gave me one of those when I was sev­en – it burnt a hole right through my tongue. I re­mem­ber Mum wal­lop­ing him with her broom­stick.’ Ron stared brood­ing­ly in­to the Acid Pop box. ‘Reck­on Fred’d take a bit of Cock­roach Clus­ter if I told him they were peanuts?’

When Ron and Hermione had paid for all their sweets, the three of them left Hon­ey­dukes for the bliz­zard out­side.

Hogsmeade looked like a Christ­mas card; the lit­tle thatched cot­tages and shops were all cov­ered in a lay­er of crisp snow; there were hol­ly wreaths on the doors and strings of en­chant­ed can­dles hang­ing in the trees.

Har­ry shiv­ered; un­like the oth­er two, he didn’t have his cloak. They head­ed up the street, heads bowed against the wind, Ron and Hermione shout­ing through their scarves.

‘That’s the Post Of­fice –’

‘Zonko’s is up there –’

‘We could go up to the Shriek­ing Shack –’

‘Tell you what,’ said Ron, his teeth chat­ter­ing, ‘shall we go for a But­ter­beer in the Three Broom­sticks?’

Har­ry was more than will­ing; the wind was fierce and his hands were freez­ing, so they crossed the road, and in a few min­utes were en­ter­ing the tiny inn.

It was ex­treme­ly crowd­ed, noisy, warm and smoky. A curvy sort of wom­an with a pret­ty face was serv­ing a bunch of row­dy war­locks up at the bar.

‘That’s Madam Ros­mer­ta,’ said Ron. ‘I’ll get the drinks, shall I?’ he added, go­ing slight­ly red.

Har­ry and Hermione made their way to the back of the room, where there was a small, va­cant ta­ble be­tween the win­dow and a hand­some Christ­mas tree which stood next to the fire­place. Ron came back five min­utes lat­er, car­ry­ing three foam­ing tankards of hot But­ter­beer.

‘Hap­py Christ­mas!’ he said hap­pi­ly, rais­ing his tankard.

Har­ry drank deeply. It was the most de­li­cious thing he’d ev­er tast­ed and seemed to heat ev­ery bit of him from the in­side.

A sud­den breeze ruf­fled his hair. The door of the Three Broom­sticks had opened again. Har­ry looked over the rim of his tankard and choked.

Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Flitwick had just en­tered the pub in a flur­ry of snowflakes, short­ly fol­lowed by Ha­grid, who was deep in con­ver­sa­tion with a port­ly man in a lime-​green bowler hat and a pin­striped cloak: Cor­nelius Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic.

In an in­stant, Ron and Hermione had both placed hands on the top of Har­ry’s head and forced him off his stool and un­der the ta­ble. Drip­ping with But­ter­beer and crouch­ing out of sight, Har­ry clutched his emp­ty tankard and watched the teach­ers’ and Fudge’s feet move to­wards the bar, pause, then turn and walk right to­wards him.

Some­where above him, Hermione whis­pered, ‘Mo­bil­iar­bus!’

The Christ­mas tree be­side their ta­ble rose a few inch­es off the ground, drift­ed side­ways and land­ed with a soft thump right in front of their ta­ble, hid­ing them from view. Star­ing through the dense low­er branch­es, Har­ry saw four sets of chair legs move back from the ta­ble right be­side theirs, then heard the grunts and sighs of the teach­ers and Min­is­ter as they sat down.

Next he saw an­oth­er pair of feet, wear­ing spark­ly turquoise high heels, and heard a wom­an’s voice.

‘A small Gilly­wa­ter –’

‘Mine,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice.

‘Four pints of mulled mead –’

‘Ta, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Ha­grid.

‘A cher­ry syrup and so­da with ice and um­brel­la –’

‘Mmm!’ said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, smack­ing his lips.

‘So you’ll be the red­cur­rant rum, Min­is­ter.’

‘Thank you, Ros­mer­ta, m’dear,’ said Fudge’s voice. ‘Love­ly to see you again, I must say. Have one your­self, won’t you? Come and join us …’

‘Well, thank you very much, Min­is­ter.’

Har­ry watched the glit­ter­ing heels march away and back again. His heart was pound­ing un­com­fort­ably in his throat. Why hadn’t it oc­curred to him that this was the last week­end of term for the teach­ers, too? And how long were they go­ing to sit there? He need­ed time to sneak back in­to Hon­ey­dukes if he want­ed to re­turn to school tonight … Hermione’s leg gave a ner­vous twitch next to him.

‘So, what brings you to this neck of the woods, Min­is­ter?’ came Madam Ros­mer­ta’s voice.

Har­ry saw the low­er part of Fudge’s thick body twist in his chair as though he was check­ing for eaves­drop­pers. Then he said in a qui­et voice, ‘What else, m’dear, but Sir­ius Black? I dare­say you heard what hap­pened up at the school at Hal­lowe’en?’

‘I did hear a ru­mour,’ ad­mit­ted Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Did you tell the whole pub, Ha­grid?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ex­as­per­at­ed­ly.

‘Do you think Black’s still in the area, Min­is­ter?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘I’m sure of it,’ said Fudge short­ly.

‘You know that the De­men­tors have searched my pub twice?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, a slight edge to her voice. ‘Scared all my cus­tomers away … it’s very bad for busi­ness, Min­is­ter.’

‘Ros­mer­ta, m’dear, I don’t like them any more than you do,’ said Fudge un­com­fort­ably. ‘Nec­es­sary pre­cau­tion … un­for­tu­nate, but there you are … I’ve just met some of them. They’re in a fury against Dum­ble­dore – he won’t let them in­side the cas­tle grounds.’

‘I should think not,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply. ‘How are we sup­posed to teach with those hor­rors float­ing around?’

‘Hear, hear!’ squeaked tiny Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, whose feet were dan­gling a foot from the ground.

‘All the same,’ de­murred Fudge, ‘they are here to pro­tect you all from some­thing much worse … we all know what Black’s ca­pa­ble of …’

‘Do you know, I still have trou­ble be­liev­ing it,’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta thought­ful­ly. ‘Of all the peo­ple to go over to the Dark side, Sir­ius Black was the last I’d have thought … I mean, I re­mem­ber him when he was a boy at Hog­warts. If you’d told me then what he was go­ing to be­come, I’d have said you’d had too much mead.’

‘You don’t know the half of it, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Fudge gruffly. ‘The worst he did isn’t wide­ly known.’

‘The worst?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, her voice alive with cu­rios­ity. ‘Worse than mur­der­ing all those poor peo­ple, you mean?’

‘I cer­tain­ly do,’ said Fudge.

‘I can’t be­lieve that. What could pos­si­bly be worse?’

‘You say you re­mem­ber him at Hog­warts, Ros­mer­ta,’ mur­mured Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Do you re­mem­ber who his best friend was?’

‘Nat­ural­ly,’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, with a small laugh. ‘Nev­er saw one with­out the oth­er, did you? The num­ber of times I had them in here – ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the dou­ble act, Sir­ius Black and James Pot­ter!’

Har­ry dropped his tankard with a loud clunk. Ron kicked him.

‘Pre­cise­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Black and Pot­ter. Ringlead­ers of their lit­tle gang. Both very bright, of course – ex­cep­tion­al­ly bright, in fact – but I don’t think we’ve ev­er had such a pair of trou­ble­mak­ers –’

‘I dun­no,’ chuck­led Ha­grid. ‘Fred and George Weasley could give ’em a run fer their mon­ey’

‘You’d have thought Black and Pot­ter were broth­ers!’ chimed in Pro­fes­sor Flitwick. ‘In­sep­ara­ble!’

‘Of course they were,’ said Fudge. ‘Pot­ter trust­ed Black be­yond all his oth­er friends. Noth­ing changed when they left school. Black was best man when James mar­ried Lily. Then they named him god­fa­ther to Har­ry. Har­ry has no idea, of course. You can imag­ine how the idea would tor­ment him.’

‘Be­cause Black turned out to be in league with You-​Know-​Who?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Worse even than that, m’dear …’ Fudge dropped his voice and pro­ceed­ed in a sort of low rum­ble. ‘Not many peo­ple are aware that the Pot­ters knew You-​Know-​Who was af­ter them. Dum­ble­dore, who was of course work­ing tire­less­ly against You-​Know-​Who, had a num­ber of use­ful spies. One of them tipped him off, and he alert­ed James and Lily at once. He ad­vised them to go in­to hid­ing. Well, of course, You-​Know-​Who wasn’t an easy per­son to hide from. Dum­ble­dore told them that their best chance was the Fi­delius Charm.’

‘How does that work?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta, breath­less with in­ter­est. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick cleared his throat.

‘An im­mense­ly com­plex spell,’ he said squeak­ily, ‘in­volv­ing the mag­ical con­ceal­ment of a se­cret in­side a sin­gle, liv­ing soul. The in­for­ma­tion is hid­den in­side the cho­sen per­son, or Se­cret-​Keep­er, and is hence­forth im­pos­si­ble to find – un­less, of course, the Se­cret-​Keep­er choos­es to di­vulge it. As long as the Se­cret-​Keep­er re­fused to speak, You-​Know-​Who could search the vil­lage where Lily and James were stay­ing for years and nev­er find them, not even if he had his nose pressed against their sit­ting-​room win­dow!’

‘So Black was the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er?’ whis­pered Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Nat­ural­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘James Pot­ter told Dum­ble­dore that Black would die rather than tell where they were, that Black was plan­ning to go in­to hid­ing him­self … and yet, Dum­ble­dore re­mained wor­ried. I re­mem­ber him of­fer­ing to be the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er him­self.’

‘He sus­pect­ed Black?’ gasped Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘He was sure that some­body close to the Pot­ters had been keep­ing You-​Know-​Who in­formed of their move­ments,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dark­ly. ‘In­deed, he had sus­pect­ed for some time that some­one on our side had turned traitor and was pass­ing a lot of in­for­ma­tion to You-​Know-​Who.’

‘But James Pot­ter in­sist­ed on us­ing Black?’

‘He did,’ said Fudge heav­ily. ‘And then, bare­ly a week af­ter the Fi­delius Charm had been per­formed –’

‘Black be­trayed them?’ breathed Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘He did in­deed. Black was tired of his dou­ble-​agent role, he was ready to de­clare his sup­port open­ly for You-​Know-​Who, and he seems to have planned this for the mo­ment of the Pot­ters’ death. But, as we all know, You-​Know-​Who met his down­fall in lit­tle Har­ry Pot­ter. Pow­ers gone, hor­ri­bly weak­ened, he fled. And this left Black in a very nasty po­si­tion in­deed. His Mas­ter had fall­en at the very mo­ment when he, Black, had shown his true colours as a traitor. He had no choice but to run for it –’

‘Filthy, stinkin’ turn­coat!’ Ha­grid said, so loud­ly that half the bar went qui­et.

‘Shh!’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

‘I met him!’ growled Ha­grid. ‘I mus­ta bin the last ter see him be­fore he killed all them peo­ple! It was me what res­cued Har­ry from Lily an’ James’ house af­ter they was killed! Jus’ got him out­ta the ru­ins, poor lit­tle thing, with a great slash across his fore­head, an’ his par­ents dead … an’ Sir­ius Black turns up, on that fly­in’ mo­tor­bike he used ter ride. Nev­er oc­curred ter me what he was doin’ there. I didn’ know he’d bin Lily an’ James’ Se­cret-​Keep­er. Thought he’d jus’ heard the news o’ You-​Know-​Who’s at­tack an’ come ter see what he could do. White an’ shakin’, he was. An’ yeh know what I did? I COM­FORT­ED THE MUR­DERIN’ TRAITOR!’ Ha­grid roared.

‘Ha­grid, please!’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Keep your voice down!’

‘How was I ter know he wasn’ up­set abou’ Lily an’ James? It was You-​Know-​Who he cared abou’! An’ then he says, ‘Give Har­ry ter me, Ha­grid, I’m his god­fa­ther, I’ll look af­ter him –’ Ha! But I’d had me or­ders from Dum­ble­dore, an’ I told Black no, Dum­ble­dore said Har­ry was ter go ter his aunt an’ un­cle’s. Black ar­gued, but in the end he gave in. Told me ter take his mo­tor­bike ter get Har­ry there. ‘I won’ need it any more,’ he says.

‘I shoul­da known there was some­thin’ fishy goin’ on then. He loved that mo­tor­bike, what was he givin’ it ter me for? Why wouldn’ he need it any more? Fact was, it was too easy ter trace. Dum­ble­dore knew he’d bin the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er. Black knew he was goin’ ter have ter run fer it that night, knew it was a mat­ter o’ hours be­fore the Min­istry was af­ter him.

‘But what if I’d giv­en Har­ry to him, eh? I bet he’d’ve pitched him off the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes’ friend’s son! But when a wiz­ard goes over ter the dark side, there’s noth­in’ and no one that mat­ters to ’em any more …’

A long si­lence fol­lowed Ha­grid’s sto­ry. Then Madam Ros­mer­ta said with some sat­is­fac­tion, ‘But he didn’t man­age to dis­ap­pear, did he? The Min­istry of Mag­ic caught up with him next day!’

‘Alas, if on­ly we had,’ said Fudge bit­ter­ly. ‘It was not we who found him. It was lit­tle Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew – an­oth­er of the Pot­ters’ friends. Mad­dened by grief, no doubt, and know­ing that Black had been the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er, he went af­ter Black him­self.’

‘Pet­ti­grew … that fat lit­tle boy who was al­ways tag­ging around af­ter them at Hog­warts?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta.

‘Hero-​wor­shipped Black and Pot­ter,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Nev­er quite in their league, tal­ent-​wise. I was of­ten rather sharp with him. You can imag­ine how I – how I re­gret that now …’ She sound­ed as though she had a sud­den head cold.

‘There, now, Min­er­va,’ said Fudge kind­ly, ‘Pet­ti­grew died a hero’s death. Eye-​wit­ness­es – Mug­gles, of course, we wiped their mem­ories lat­er – told us how Pet­ti­grew cor­nered Black. They say he was sob­bing. ‘Lily and James, Sir­ius! How could you!’ And then he went for his wand. Well, of course, Black was quick­er. Blew Pet­ti­grew to smithereens …’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall blew her nose and said thick­ly, ‘Stupid boy … fool­ish boy … he was al­ways hope­less at du­elling … should have left it to the Min­istry …’

‘I tell yeh, if I’d got ter Black be­fore lit­tle Pet­ti­grew did, I wouldn’t’ve messed around with wands – I’d’ve ripped him limb – from – limb,’ Ha­grid growled.

‘You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about, Ha­grid,’ said Fudge sharply. ‘No­body but trained Hit Wiz­ards from the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad would have stood a chance against Black once he was cor­nered. I was Ju­nior Min­is­ter in the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Catas­tro­phes at the time, and I was one of the first on the scene af­ter Black mur­dered all those peo­ple. I – I will nev­er for­get it. I still dream about it some­times. A crater in the mid­dle of the street, so deep it had cracked the sew­er be­low. Bod­ies ev­ery­where. Mug­gles scream­ing. And Black stand­ing there laugh­ing, with what was left of Pet­ti­grew in front of him … a heap of blood-​stained robes and a few – a few frag­ments –’

Fudge’s voice stopped abrupt­ly. There was the sound of five noses be­ing blown.

‘Well, there you have it, Ros­mer­ta,’ said Fudge thick­ly. ‘Black was tak­en away by twen­ty mem­bers of the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Pa­trol and Pet­ti­grew re­ceived the Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, which I think was some com­fort to his poor moth­er. Black’s been in Azk­aban ev­er since.’

Madam Ros­mer­ta let out a long sigh.

‘Is it true he’s mad, Min­is­ter?’

‘I wish I could say that he was,’ said Fudge slow­ly. ‘I cer­tain­ly be­lieve his mas­ter’s de­feat un­hinged him for a while. The mur­der of Pet­ti­grew and all those Mug­gles was the ac­tion of a cor­nered and des­per­ate man – cru­el … point­less. Yet I met Black on my last in­spec­tion of Azk­aban. You know, most of the pris­on­ers in there sit mut­ter­ing to them­selves in the dark, there’s no sense in them … but I was shocked at how nor­mal Black seemed. He spoke quite ra­tio­nal­ly to me. It was un­nerv­ing. You’d have thought he was mere­ly bored – asked if I’d fin­ished with my news­pa­per, cool as you please, said he missed do­ing the cross­word. Yes, I was as­tound­ed at how lit­tle ef­fect the De­men­tors seemed to be hav­ing on him – and he was one of the most heav­ily guard­ed in the place, you know. De­men­tors out­side his door, day and night.’

‘But what do you think he’s bro­ken out to do?’ said Madam Ros­mer­ta. ‘Good gra­cious, Min­is­ter, he isn’t try­ing to re­join You-​Know-​Who, is he?’

‘I dare­say that is his – er – even­tu­al plan,’ said Fudge eva­sive­ly. ‘But we hope to catch Black long be­fore that. I must say, You-​Know-​Who alone and friend­less is one thing … but give him back his most de­vot­ed ser­vant, and I shud­der to think how quick­ly he’ll rise again …’

There was a small chink of glass on wood. Some­one had set down their glass.

‘You know, Cor­nelius, if you’re din­ing with the Head­mas­ter, we’d bet­ter head back up to the cas­tle,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

One by one, the pairs of feet in front of Har­ry took the weight of their own­ers once more; hems of cloaks swung in­to sight and Madam Ros­mer­ta’s glit­ter­ing heels dis­ap­peared be­hind the bar. The door of the Three Broom­sticks opened again, there was an­oth­er flur­ry of snow, and the teach­ers dis­ap­peared.

‘Har­ry?’

Ron and Hermione’s faces ap­peared un­der the ta­ble. They were both star­ing at him, lost for words.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER ELEVEN


The Fire­bolt



Har­ry didn’t have a very clear idea of how he had man­aged to get back in­to the Hon­ey­dukes cel­lar, through the tun­nel and in­to the cas­tle once more. All he knew was that the re­turn trip seemed to take no time at all, and that he hard­ly no­ticed what he was do­ing, be­cause his head was still pound­ing with the con­ver­sa­tion he had just heard.

Why had no­body ev­er told him? Dum­ble­dore, Ha­grid, Mr Weasley, Cor­nelius Fudge … why hadn’t any­one ev­er men­tioned the fact that Har­ry’s par­ents had died be­cause their best friend had be­trayed them?

Ron and Hermione watched Har­ry ner­vous­ly all through din­ner, not dar­ing to talk about what they’d over­heard, be­cause Per­cy was sit­ting close by them. When they went up­stairs to the crowd­ed com­mon room, it was to find Fred and George had set off half-​a-​dozen Dung­bombs in a fit of end-​of-​term high spir­its. Har­ry, who didn’t want Fred and George ask­ing him whether he’d reached Hogsmeade or not, sneaked qui­et­ly up to the emp­ty dor­mi­to­ry, and head­ed straight for his bed­side cab­inet. He pushed his books aside and quick­ly found what he was look­ing for – the leather-​bound pho­to al­bum Ha­grid had giv­en him two years ago, which was full of wiz­ard pic­tures of his moth­er and fa­ther. He sat down on his bed, drew the hang­ings around him, and start­ed turn­ing the pages, search­ing, un­til …

He stopped on a pic­ture of his par­ents’ wed­ding day. There was his fa­ther wav­ing up at him, beam­ing, the un­tidy black hair Har­ry had in­her­it­ed stand­ing up in all di­rec­tions. There was his moth­er, alight with hap­pi­ness, arm in arm with his Dad. And there … that must be him. Their best man … Har­ry had nev­er giv­en him a thought be­fore.

If he hadn’t known it was the same per­son, he would nev­er have guessed it was Black in this old pho­to­graph. His face wasn’t sunken and waxy, but hand­some, full of laugh­ter. Had he al­ready been work­ing for Volde­mort when this pic­ture had been tak­en? Was he al­ready plan­ning the deaths of the two peo­ple next to him? Did he re­alise he was fac­ing twelve years in Azk­aban, twelve years which would make him un­recog­nis­able?

But the De­men­tors don’t af­fect him, Har­ry thought, star­ing in­to the hand­some, laugh­ing face. He doesn’t have to hear my Mum scream­ing if they get too close –

Har­ry slammed the al­bum shut, reached over and stuffed it back in­to his cab­inet, took off his robes and glass­es and got in­to bed, mak­ing sure the hang­ings were hid­ing him from view.

The dor­mi­to­ry door opened.

‘Har­ry?’ said Ron’s voice un­cer­tain­ly.

But Har­ry lay still, pre­tend­ing to be asleep. He heard Ron leave again, and rolled over on his back, his eyes wide open.

A ha­tred such as he had nev­er known be­fore was cours­ing through Har­ry like poi­son. He could see Black laugh­ing at him through the dark­ness, as though some­body had past­ed the pic­ture from the al­bum over his eyes. He watched, as though some­body was play­ing him a piece of film, Sir­ius Black blast­ing Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew (who re­sem­bled Neville Long­bot­tom) in­to a thou­sand pieces. He could hear (though he had no idea what Black’s voice might sound like) a low, ex­cit­ed mut­ter. ‘It has hap­pened, my Lord … the Pot­ters have made me their Se­cret-​Keep­er …’ And then came an­oth­er voice, laugh­ing shril­ly, the same laugh that Har­ry heard in­side his head when­ev­er the De­men­tors drew near …

*

‘Har­ry you – you look ter­ri­ble.’

Har­ry hadn’t got to sleep un­til day­break. He had awo­ken to find the dor­mi­to­ry de­sert­ed, dressed and gone down the spi­ral stair­case to a com­mon room that was com­plete­ly emp­ty ex­cept for Ron, who was eat­ing a Pep­per­mint Toad and mas­sag­ing his stom­ach, and Hermione, who had spread her home­work over three ta­bles.

‘Where is ev­ery­one?’ said Har­ry.

‘Gone! It’s the first day of the hol­idays, re­mem­ber?’ said Ron, watch­ing Har­ry close­ly. ‘It’s near­ly lunchtime, I was go­ing to come and wake you up in a minute.’

Har­ry slumped in­to a chair next to the fire. Snow was still falling out­side the win­dows. Crook­shanks was spread out in front of the fire like a large, gin­ger rug.

‘You re­al­ly don’t look well, you know,’ Hermione said, peer­ing anx­ious­ly in­to his face.

‘I’m fine,’ said Har­ry.

‘Har­ry, lis­ten,’ said Hermione, ex­chang­ing a look with Ron, ‘you must be re­al­ly up­set about what we heard yes­ter­day. But the thing is, you mustn’t go do­ing any­thing stupid.’

‘Like what?’ said Har­ry.

‘Like try­ing to go af­ter Black,’ said Ron sharply.

Har­ry could tell they had re­hearsed this con­ver­sa­tion while he had been asleep. He didn’t say any­thing.

‘You won’t, will you, Har­ry?’ said Hermione.

‘Be­cause Black’s not worth dy­ing for,’ said Ron.

Har­ry looked at them. They didn’t seem to un­der­stand at all.

‘D’you know what I see and hear ev­ery time a De­men­tor gets too near me?’ Ron and Hermione shook their heads, look­ing ap­pre­hen­sive. ‘I can hear my mum scream­ing and plead­ing with Volde­mort. And if you’d heard your mum scream­ing like that, just about to be killed, you wouldn’t for­get it in a hur­ry. And if you found out some­one who was sup­posed to be a friend of hers be­trayed her and sent Volde­mort af­ter her –’

‘There’s noth­ing you can do!’ said Hermione, look­ing strick­en. ‘The De­men­tors will catch Black and he’ll go back to Azk­aban and – and serve him right!’

‘You heard what Fudge said. Black isn’t af­fect­ed by Azk­aban like nor­mal peo­ple are. It’s not a pun­ish­ment for him like it is for the oth­ers.’

‘So what are you say­ing?’ said Ron, look­ing very tense. ‘You want to – to kill Black or some­thing?’

‘Don’t be sil­ly,’ said Hermione in a pan­icky voice. ‘Har­ry doesn’t want to kill any­one, do you, Har­ry?’

Again, Har­ry didn’t an­swer. He didn’t know what he want­ed to do. All he knew was that the idea of do­ing noth­ing, while Black was at lib­er­ty, was al­most more than he could stand.

‘Mal­foy knows,’ he said abrupt­ly. ‘Re­mem­ber what he said to me in Po­tions? ‘If it was me, I’d hunt him down my­self … I’d want re­venge.’’

‘You’re go­ing to take Mal­foy’s ad­vice in­stead of ours?’ said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘Lis­ten … you know what Pet­ti­grew’s moth­er got back af­ter Black had fin­ished with him? Dad told me – the Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, and Pet­ti­grew’s fin­ger in a box. That was the biggest bit of him they could find. Black’s a mad­man, Har­ry, and he’s dan­ger­ous –’

‘Mal­foy’s dad must have told him,’ said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing Ron. ‘He was right in Volde­mort’s in­ner cir­cle –’

‘Say You-​Know-​Who, will you?’ in­ter­ject­ed Ron an­gri­ly.

‘– so ob­vi­ous­ly, the Mal­foys knew Black was work­ing for Volde­mort –’

‘– and Mal­foy’d love to see you blown in­to about a mil­lion pieces, like Pet­ti­grew! Get a grip, Mal­foy’s just hop­ing you’ll get your­self killed be­fore he has to play you at Quid­ditch.’

‘Har­ry please,’ said Hermione, her eyes now shin­ing with tears, ‘please be sen­si­ble. Black did a ter­ri­ble, ter­ri­ble thing, but d-​don’t put your­self in dan­ger, it’s what Black wants … oh, Har­ry, you’d be play­ing right in­to Black’s hands if you went look­ing for him. Your mum and dad wouldn’t want you to get hurt, would they? They’d nev­er want you to go look­ing for Black!’

‘I’ll nev­er know what they’d have want­ed be­cause, thanks to Black, I’ve nev­er spo­ken to them,’ said Har­ry short­ly.

There was a si­lence, in which Crook­shanks stretched lux­uri­ous­ly, flex­ing his claws. Ron’s pock­et quiv­ered.

‘Look,’ said Ron, ob­vi­ous­ly cast­ing around for a change of sub­ject, ‘it’s the hol­idays! It’s near­ly Christ­mas! Let’s – let’s go down and see Ha­grid. We haven’t vis­it­ed him for ages!’

‘No!’ said Hermione quick­ly. ‘Har­ry isn’t sup­posed to leave the cas­tle, Ron –’

‘Yeah, let’s go,’ said Har­ry, sit­ting up, ‘and I can ask him how come he nev­er men­tioned Black when he told me all about my par­ents!’

Fur­ther dis­cus­sion of Sir­ius Black plain­ly wasn’t what Ron had had in mind.

‘Or we could have a game of chess,’ he said hasti­ly, ‘or Gob­stones. Per­cy left a set –’

‘No, let’s vis­it Ha­grid,’ said Har­ry firm­ly.

So they got their cloaks from their dor­mi­to­ries and set off through the por­trait hole (‘Stand and fight, you yel­low-​bel­lied mon­grels!’), down through the emp­ty cas­tle and out through the oak front doors.

They made their way slow­ly down the lawn, mak­ing a shal­low trench in the glit­ter­ing, pow­dery snow, their socks and the hems of their cloaks soaked and freez­ing. The For­bid­den For­est looked as though it had been en­chant­ed, each tree smat­tered with sil­ver, and Ha­grid’s cab­in looked like an iced cake.

Ron knocked, but there was no an­swer.

‘He’s not out, is he?’ said Hermione, who was shiv­er­ing un­der her cloak.

Ron had his ear to the door.

‘There’s a weird noise,’ he said. ‘Lis­ten – is that Fang?’

Har­ry and Hermione put their ears to the door, too. From in­side the cab­in came a se­ries of low, throb­bing moans.

‘Think we’d bet­ter go and get some­one?’ said Ron ner­vous­ly.

‘Ha­grid!’ called Har­ry, thump­ing the door. ‘Ha­grid, are you in there?’

There was a sound of heavy foot­steps, then the door creaked open. Ha­grid stood there with his eyes red and swollen; tears splash­ing down the front of his leather waist­coat.

‘Yeh’ve heard!’ he bel­lowed, and he flung him­self on­to Har­ry’s neck.

Ha­grid be­ing at least twice the size of a nor­mal man, this was no laugh­ing mat­ter. Har­ry, about to col­lapse un­der Ha­grid’s weight, was res­cued by Ron and Hermione, who each seized Ha­grid un­der an arm and heaved him, Har­ry help­ing, back in­to the cab­in. Ha­grid al­lowed him­self to be steered in­to a chair and slumped over the ta­ble, sob­bing un­con­trol­lably, his face glazed with tears which dripped down in­to his tan­gled beard.

‘Ha­grid, what is it?’ said Hermione, aghast.

Har­ry spot­ted an of­fi­cial-​look­ing let­ter ly­ing open on the ta­ble.

‘What’s this, Ha­grid?’

Ha­grid’s sobs re­dou­bled, but he shoved the let­ter to­wards Har­ry, who picked it up and read aloud:



Dear Mr Ha­grid,

Fur­ther to our in­quiry in­to the at­tack by a Hip­pogriff on a stu­dent in your class, we have ac­cept­ed the as­sur­ances of Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore that you bear no re­spon­si­bil­ity for the re­gret­table in­ci­dent.



‘Well, that’s OK, then, Ha­grid!’ said Ron, clap­ping Ha­grid on the shoul­der. But Ha­grid con­tin­ued to sob, and waved one of his gi­gan­tic hands, invit­ing Har­ry to read on.



How­ev­er, we must reg­is­ter our con­cern about the Hip­pogriff in ques­tion. We have de­cid­ed to up­hold the of­fi­cial com­plaint of Mr Lu­cius Mal­foy, and this mat­ter will there­fore be tak­en to the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures. The hear­ing will take place on April 20th, and we ask you to present your­self and your Hip­pogriff at the Com­mit­tee’s of­fices in Lon­don on that date. In the mean­time, the Hip­pogriff should be kept teth­ered and iso­lat­ed.

Yours in fel­low­ship …



There fol­lowed a list of the school gov­er­nors.

‘Oh,’ said Ron. ‘But you said Buck­beak isn’t a bad Hip­pogriff, Ha­grid. I bet he’ll get off –’

‘Yeh don’ know them gar­goyles at the Com­mit­tee fer the Dis­pos­al o’ Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures!’ choked Ha­grid, wip­ing his eyes on his sleeve. ‘They’ve got it in fer in­ter­estin’ crea­tures!’

A sud­den sound from the cor­ner of Ha­grid’s cab­in made Har­ry, Ron and Hermione whip around. Buck­beak the Hip­pogriff was ly­ing in the cor­ner, chomp­ing on some­thing that was ooz­ing blood all over the floor.

‘I couldn’ leave him tied up out there in the snow!’ choked Ha­grid. ‘All on his own! At Christ­mas!’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione looked at each oth­er. They had nev­er seen eye to eye with Ha­grid about what he called ‘in­ter­est­ing crea­tures’ and oth­er peo­ple called ‘ter­ri­fy­ing mon­sters’. On the oth­er hand, there didn’t seem to be any par­tic­ular harm in Buck­beak. In fact, by Ha­grid’s usu­al stan­dards, he was pos­itive­ly cute.

‘You’ll have to put up a good strong de­fence, Ha­grid,’ said Hermione, sit­ting down and lay­ing a hand on Ha­grid’s mas­sive fore­arm. ‘I’m sure you can prove Buck­beak is safe.’

‘Won’ make no diff’rence!’ sobbed Ha­grid. ‘Them Dis­pos­al dev­ils, they’re all in Lu­cius Mal­foy’s pock­et! Scared o’ him! An’ if I lose the case, Buck­beak –’

Ha­grid drew his fin­ger swift­ly across his throat, then gave a great wail and lurched for­wards, his face in his arms.

‘What about Dum­ble­dore, Ha­grid?’ said Har­ry.

‘He’s done more’n enough fer me al­ready,’ groaned Ha­grid. ‘Got enough on his plate what with keepin’ them De­men­tors out­ta the cas­tle, an’ Sir­ius Black lurkin’ around –’

Ron and Hermione looked quick­ly at Har­ry, as though ex­pect­ing him to start be­rat­ing Ha­grid for not telling him the truth about Black. But Har­ry couldn’t bring him­self to do it, not now he saw Ha­grid so mis­er­able and scared.

‘Lis­ten, Ha­grid,’ he said, ‘you can’t give up. Hermione’s right, you just need a good de­fence. You can call us as wit­ness­es –’

‘I’m sure I’ve read about a case of Hip­pogriff-​bait­ing,’ said Hermione thought­ful­ly, ‘where the Hip­pogriff got off. I’ll look it up for you, Ha­grid, and see ex­act­ly what hap­pened.’

Ha­grid howled still more loud­ly. Har­ry and Hermione looked at Ron to help them.

‘Er – shall I make a cup of tea?’ said Ron.

Har­ry stared at him.

‘It’s what my mum does when­ev­er some­one’s up­set,’ Ron mut­tered, shrug­ging.

At last, af­ter many more as­sur­ances of help, with a steam­ing mug of tea in front of him, Ha­grid blew his nose on a hand­ker­chief the size of a table­cloth and said, ‘Yer right. I can’ af­ford to go ter pieces. Got­ta pull me­self to­geth­er …’

Fang the boarhound came timid­ly out from un­der the ta­ble and laid his head on Ha­grid’s knee.

‘I’ve not bin me­self late­ly’ said Ha­grid, stroking Fang with one hand and mop­ping his face with the oth­er. ‘Wor­ried abou’ Buck­beak, an’ no one likin’ me class­es –’

‘We do like them!’ lied Hermione at once.

‘Yeah, they’re great!’ said Ron, cross­ing his fin­gers un­der the ta­ble. ‘Er – how are the Flob­ber­worms?’

‘Dead,’ said Ha­grid gloomi­ly. ‘Too much let­tuce.’

‘Oh, no!’ said Ron, his lip twitch­ing.

‘An’ them De­men­tors make me feel rud­dy ter­ri­ble an’ all,’ said Ha­grid, with a sud­den shud­der. ‘Got­ta walk past ’em ev’ry time I want a drink in the Three Broom­sticks. ’S like bein’ back in Azk­aban –’

He fell silent, gulp­ing his tea. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione watched him breath­less­ly. They had nev­er heard Ha­grid talk about his brief spell in Azk­aban be­fore. Af­ter a brief pause, Hermione said timid­ly ‘Is it aw­ful in there, Ha­grid?’

‘Yeh’ve no idea,’ said Ha­grid qui­et­ly. ‘Nev­er bin any­where like it. Thought I was goin’ mad. Kep’ goin’ over hor­ri­ble stuff in me mind … the day I got ex­pelled from Hog­warts … day me Dad died … day I had ter let Nor­bert go …’

His eyes filled with tears. Nor­bert was the ba­by drag­on Ha­grid had once won in a game of cards.

‘Yeh can’ re­al­ly re­mem­ber who yeh are af­ter a while. An’ yeh can’ see the point o’ livin’ at all. I used ter hope I’d jus’ die in me sleep … when they let me out, it was like bein’ born again, ev’ry-​thin’ came flood­in’ back, it was the bes’ feel­in’ in the world. Mind, the De­men­tors weren’t keen on let­tin’ me go.’

‘But you were in­no­cent!’ said Hermione.

Ha­grid snort­ed.

‘Think that mat­ters to them? They don’ care. Long as they’ve got a cou­ple o’ hun­dred hu­mans stuck there with ’em, so they can leech all the hap­pi­ness out of ’em, they don’ give a damn who’s guilty an’ who’s not.’

Ha­grid went qui­et for a mo­ment, star­ing in­to his tea. Then he said qui­et­ly, ‘Thought o’ jus’ let­ting Buck­beak go … tryin’ ter make him fly away … but how d’yeh ex­plain ter a Hip­pogriff it’s got­ta go in­ter hidin’? An’ – an’ I’m scared o’ breakin’ the law …’ He looked up at them, tears leak­ing down his face again. ‘I don’ ev­er want ter go back ter Azk­aban.’

*

The trip to Ha­grid’s, though far from fun, had nev­er­the­less had the ef­fect Ron and Hermione had hoped. Though Har­ry had by no means for­got­ten about Black, he couldn’t brood con­stant­ly on re­venge if he want­ed to help Ha­grid win his case against the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures. He, Ron and Hermione went to the li­brary next day, and re­turned to the emp­ty com­mon room laden with books which might help pre­pare a de­fence for Buck­beak. The three of them sat in front of the roar­ing fire, slow­ly turn­ing the pages of dusty vol­umes about fa­mous cas­es of ma­raud­ing beasts, speak­ing oc­ca­sion­al­ly when they ran across some­thing rel­evant.

‘Here’s some­thing … there was a case in 1722 … but the Hip­pogriff was con­vict­ed – urgh, look what they did to it, that’s dis­gust­ing –’

‘This might help, look – a Man­ti­core sav­aged some­one in 1296, and they let the Man­ti­core off – oh – no, that was on­ly be­cause ev­ery­one was too scared to go near it …’

Mean­while, in the rest of the cas­tle, the usu­al mag­nif­icent Christ­mas dec­ora­tions had been put up, de­spite the fact that hard­ly any of the stu­dents re­mained to en­joy them. Thick stream­ers of hol­ly and mistle­toe were strung along the cor­ri­dors, mys­te­ri­ous lights shone from in­side ev­ery suit of ar­mour and the Great Hall was filled with its usu­al twelve Christ­mas trees, glit­ter­ing with gold­en stars. A pow­er­ful and de­li­cious smell of cook­ing per­vad­ed the cor­ri­dors, and by Christ­mas Eve, it had grown so strong that even Scab­bers poked his nose out of the shel­ter of Ron’s pock­et to sniff hope­ful­ly at the air.

On Christ­mas morn­ing, Har­ry was wo­ken by Ron throw­ing his pil­low at him.

‘Oy! Presents!’

Har­ry reached for his glass­es and put them on, squint­ing through the se­mi-​dark­ness to the foot of his bed, where a small heap of parcels had ap­peared. Ron was al­ready rip­ping the pa­per off his own presents.

‘An­oth­er jumper from Mum … ma­roon again … see if you’ve got one.’

Har­ry had. Mrs Weasley had sent him a scar­let jumper with the Gryffind­or li­on knit­ted on the front, al­so a dozen home-​baked mince pies, some Christ­mas cake and a box of nut brit­tle. As he moved all these things aside, he saw a long, thin pack­age ly­ing un­der­neath.

‘What’s that?’ said Ron, look­ing over, a fresh­ly un­wrapped pair of ma­roon socks in his hand.

‘Dun­no …’

Har­ry ripped the par­cel open and gasped as a mag­nif­icent, gleam­ing broom­stick rolled out on­to his bed­spread. Ron dropped his socks and jumped off his bed for a clos­er look.

‘I don’t be­lieve it,’ he said hoarse­ly.

It was a Fire­bolt, iden­ti­cal to the dream broom Har­ry had gone to see ev­ery day in Di­agon Al­ley. Its han­dle glit­tered as he picked it up. He could feel it vi­brat­ing, and let go; it hung in mid-​air, un­sup­port­ed, at ex­act­ly the right height for him to mount it. His eyes moved from the gold­en reg­is­tra­tion num­ber at the top of the han­dle right down to the per­fect­ly smooth, stream­lined birch twigs that made up the tail.

‘Who sent it to you?’ said Ron in a hushed voice.

‘Look and see if there’s a card,’ said Har­ry.

Ron ripped apart the Fire­bolt’s wrap­pings. ‘Noth­ing! Blimey, who’d spend that much on you?’

‘Well,’ said Har­ry, feel­ing stunned, ‘I’m bet­ting it wasn’t the Durs­leys.’

‘I bet it was Dum­ble­dore,’ said Ron, now walk­ing round and round the Fire­bolt, tak­ing in ev­ery glo­ri­ous inch. ‘He sent you the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak anony­mous­ly …’

‘That was my dad’s, though,’ said Har­ry. ‘Dum­ble­dore was just pass­ing it on to me. He wouldn’t spend hun­dreds of Galleons on me. He can’t go giv­ing stu­dents stuff like this –’

‘That’s why he wouldn’t say it was from him!’ said Ron. ‘In case some git like Mal­foy said it was favouritism. Hey, Har­ry –’ Ron gave a great whoop of laugh­ter, ‘Mal­foy! Wait ’til he sees you on this! He’ll be sick as a pig! This is an in­ter­na­tion­al stan­dard broom, this is!’

‘I can’t be­lieve this,’ Har­ry mut­tered, run­ning a hand along the Fire­bolt, while Ron sank on­to Har­ry’s bed, laugh­ing his head off at the thought of Mal­foy. ‘Who –?’

‘I know,’ said Ron, con­trol­ling him­self. ‘I know who it could’ve been – Lupin!’

‘What?’ said Har­ry, now start­ing to laugh him­self. ‘Lupin? Lis­ten, if he had this much gold, he’d be able to buy him­self some new robes.’

‘Yeah, but he likes you,’ said Ron. ‘And he was away when your Nim­bus got smashed, and he might’ve heard about it and de­cid­ed to vis­it Di­agon Al­ley and get this for you –’

‘What d’you mean, he was away?’ said Har­ry. ‘He was ill when I was play­ing in that match.’

‘Well, he wasn’t in the hos­pi­tal wing,’ said Ron. ‘I was there, clean­ing out the bed­pans on that de­ten­tion from Snape, re­mem­ber?’

Har­ry frowned at Ron.

‘I can’t see Lupin af­ford­ing some­thing like this.’

‘What’re you two laugh­ing about?’

Hermione had just come in, wear­ing her dress­ing gown and car­ry­ing Crook­shanks, who was look­ing very grumpy, with a string of tin­sel tied around his neck.

‘Don’t bring him in here!’ said Ron, hur­ried­ly snatch­ing Scab­bers from the depths of his bed and stow­ing him in his py­ja­ma pock­et. But Hermione wasn’t lis­ten­ing. She dropped Crook­shanks on­to Sea­mus’s emp­ty bed and stared, open-​mouthed, at the Fire­bolt.

‘Oh, Har­ry! Who sent you that?’

‘No idea,’ said Har­ry. ‘There wasn’t a card or any­thing with it.’

To his great sur­prise, Hermione did not ap­pear ei­ther ex­cit­ed or in­trigued by this news. On the con­trary, her face fell, and she bit her lip.

‘What’s the mat­ter with you?’ said Ron.

‘I don’t know,’ said Hermione slow­ly, ‘but it’s a bit odd, isn’t it? I mean, this is sup­posed to be quite a good broom, isn’t it?’

Ron sighed ex­as­per­at­ed­ly.

‘It’s the best broom there is, Hermione,’ he said.

‘So it must’ve been re­al­ly ex­pen­sive …’

‘Prob­ably cost more than all the Slytherins’ brooms put to­geth­er,’ said Ron hap­pi­ly.

‘Well … who’d send Har­ry some­thing as ex­pen­sive as that, and not even tell him they’d sent it?’ said Hermione.

‘Who cares?’ said Ron, im­pa­tient­ly. ‘Lis­ten, Har­ry, can I have a go on it? Can I?’

‘I don’t think any­one should ride that broom just yet!’ said Hermione shril­ly.

Har­ry and Ron looked at her.

‘What d’you think Har­ry’s go­ing to do with it – sweep the floor?’ said Ron.

But be­fore Hermione could an­swer, Crook­shanks sprang from Sea­mus’s bed, right at Ron’s chest.

‘GET – HIM – OUT – OF – HERE!’ Ron bel­lowed, as Crook­shanks’s claws ripped his py­ja­mas and Scab­bers at­tempt­ed a wild es­cape over his shoul­der. Ron seized Scab­bers by the tail and aimed a mis­judged kick at Crook­shanks which hit the trunk at the end of Har­ry’s bed, knock­ing it over and caus­ing Ron to hop on the spot, howl­ing with pain.

Crook­shanks’s fur sud­den­ly stood on end. A shrill, tin­ny whistling was fill­ing the room. The Pock­et Sneako­scope had be­come dis­lodged from Un­cle Ver­non’s old socks and was whirling and gleam­ing on the floor.

‘I for­got about that!’ Har­ry said, bend­ing down and pick­ing up the Sneako­scope. ‘I nev­er wear those socks if I can help it …’

The Sneako­scope whirled and whis­tled in his palm. Crook­shanks was hiss­ing and spit­ting at it.

‘You’d bet­ter take that cat out of here, Hermione,’ said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly; he was sit­ting on Har­ry’s bed nurs­ing his toe. ‘Can’t you shut that thing up?’ he added to Har­ry, as Hermione strode out of the room, Crook­shanks’s yel­low eyes still fixed ma­li­cious­ly on Ron.

Har­ry stuffed the Sneako­scope back in­side the socks and threw it back in­to his trunk. All that could be heard now were Ron’s sti­fled moans of pain and rage. Scab­bers was hud­dled in Ron’s hands. It had been a while since Har­ry had seen him out of Ron’s pock­et, and he was un­pleas­ant­ly sur­prised to see that Scab­bers, once so fat, was now very skin­ny; patch­es of fur seemed to have fall­en out, too.

‘He’s not look­ing too good, is he?’ Har­ry said.

‘It’s stress!’ said Ron. ‘He’d be fine if that stupid great fur­ball left him alone!’

But Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing what the wom­an at the Mag­ical Menagerie had said about rats on­ly liv­ing three years, couldn’t help feel­ing that un­less Scab­bers had pow­ers he had nev­er re­vealed, he was reach­ing the end of his life. And de­spite Ron’s fre­quent com­plaints that Scab­bers was both bor­ing and use­less, he was sure Ron would be very mis­er­able if Scab­bers died.

Christ­mas spir­it was def­inite­ly thin on the ground in the Gryffind­or com­mon room that morn­ing. Hermione had shut Crook­shanks in her dor­mi­to­ry, but was fu­ri­ous with Ron for try­ing to kick him; Ron was still fum­ing about Crook­shanks’s fresh at­tempt to eat Scab­bers. Har­ry gave up try­ing to make them talk to each oth­er, and de­vot­ed him­self to ex­am­in­ing the Fire­bolt, which he had brought down to the com­mon room with him. For some rea­son this seemed to an­noy Hermione as well; she didn’t say any­thing, but she kept look­ing dark­ly at the broom as though it, too, had been crit­icis­ing her cat.

At lunchtime they went down to the Great Hall, to find that the house ta­bles had been moved against the walls again, and that a sin­gle ta­ble, set for twelve, stood in the mid­dle of the room. Pro­fes­sors Dum­ble­dore, McG­ona­gall, Snape, Sprout and Flitwick were there, along with Filch, the care­tak­er, who had tak­en off his usu­al brown coat and was wear­ing a very old and rather mouldy look­ing tail coat. There were on­ly three oth­er stu­dents: two ex­treme­ly ner­vous-​look­ing first-​years, and a sullen-​faced Slytherin fifth-​year.

‘Mer­ry Christ­mas!’ said Dum­ble­dore, as Har­ry, Ron and Hermione ap­proached the ta­ble. ‘As there are so few of us, it seemed fool­ish to use the house ta­bles … sit down, sit down!’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat down side by side at the end of the ta­ble.

‘Crack­ers!’ said Dum­ble­dore en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, of­fer­ing the end of a large sil­ver one to Snape, who took it re­luc­tant­ly and tugged. With a bang like a gun­shot, the crack­er flew apart to re­veal a large, point­ed witch’s hat topped with a stuffed vul­ture.

Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the Bog­gart, caught Ron’s eye and they both grinned; Snape’s mouth thinned and he pushed the hat to­wards Dum­ble­dore, who swapped it for his wiz­ard’s hat at once.

‘Tuck in!’ he ad­vised the ta­ble, beam­ing around.

As Har­ry was help­ing him­self to roast pota­toes, the doors of the Great Hall opened again. It was Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, glid­ing to­wards them as though on wheels. She had put on a green se­quined dress in hon­our of the oc­ca­sion, mak­ing her look more than ev­er like a glit­ter­ing, over­size drag­on­fly.

‘Sybill, this is a pleas­ant sur­prise!’ said Dum­ble­dore, stand­ing up.

‘I have been crys­tal-​gaz­ing, Head­mas­ter,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in her mist­iest, most far­away voice, ‘and to my as­ton­ish­ment, I saw my­self aban­don­ing my soli­tary lun­cheon and com­ing to join you. Who am I to refuse the prompt­ings of fate? I at once has­tened from my tow­er, and I do beg you to for­give my late­ness …’

‘Cer­tain­ly, cer­tain­ly,’ said Dum­ble­dore, his eyes twin­kling. ‘Let me draw you up a chair –’

And he did in­deed draw a chair in mid-​air with his wand, which re­volved for a few sec­onds be­fore falling with a thud be­tween Pro­fes­sors Snape and McG­ona­gall. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, how­ev­er, did not sit down; her enor­mous eyes had been rov­ing around the ta­ble, and she sud­den­ly ut­tered a kind of soft scream.

‘I dare not, Head­mas­ter! If I join the ta­ble, we shall be thir­teen! Noth­ing could be more un­lucky! Nev­er for­get that when thir­teen dine to­geth­er, the first to rise will be the first to die!’

‘We’ll risk it, Sybill,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall im­pa­tient­ly. ‘Do sit down, the turkey’s get­ting stone cold.’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney hes­itat­ed, then low­ered her­self in­to the emp­ty chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched tight, as though ex­pect­ing a thun­der­bolt to hit the ta­ble. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall poked a large spoon in­to the near­est tureen. ‘Tripe, Sybill?’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney ig­nored her. Eyes open again, she looked around once more and said, ‘But where is dear Pro­fes­sor Lupin?’

‘I’m afraid the poor fel­low is ill again,’ said Dum­ble­dore, in­di­cat­ing that ev­ery­body should start serv­ing them­selves. ‘Most un­for­tu­nate that it should hap­pen on Christ­mas Day.’

‘But sure­ly you al­ready knew that, Sybill?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, her eye­brows raised.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gave Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall a very cold look.

‘Cer­tain­ly I knew, Min­er­va,’ she said qui­et­ly. ‘But one does not pa­rade the fact that one is All-​Know­ing. I fre­quent­ly act as though I am not pos­sessed of the In­ner Eye, so as not to make oth­ers ner­vous.’

‘That ex­plains a great deal,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tart­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s voice sud­den­ly be­came a good deal less misty.

‘If you must know, Min­er­va, I have seen that poor Pro­fes­sor Lupin will not be with us for very long. He seems aware, him­self, that his time is short. He pos­itive­ly fled when I of­fered to crys­tal-​gaze for him –’

‘Imag­ine that,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dri­ly.

‘I doubt,’ said Dum­ble­dore, in a cheer­ful but slight­ly raised voice, which put an end to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s con­ver­sa­tion, ‘that Pro­fes­sor Lupin is in any im­me­di­ate dan­ger. Severus, you’ve made the Po­tion for him again?’

‘Yes, Head­mas­ter,’ said Snape.

‘Good,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Then he should be up and about in no time … Derek, have you had any of these chipo­latas? They’re ex­cel­lent.’

The first-​year boy went fu­ri­ous­ly red on be­ing ad­dressed di­rect­ly by Dum­ble­dore, and took the plat­ter of sausages with trem­bling hands.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney be­haved al­most nor­mal­ly un­til the very end of Christ­mas din­ner, two hours lat­er. Full to burst­ing with Christ­mas din­ner and still wear­ing their crack­er hats, Har­ry and Ron got up first from the ta­ble and she shrieked loud­ly.

‘My dears! Which of you left his seat first? Which?’

‘Dun­no,’ said Ron, look­ing un­easi­ly at Har­ry.

‘I doubt it will make much dif­fer­ence,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall cold­ly, ‘un­less a mad axe-​man is wait­ing out­side the doors to slaugh­ter the first in­to the En­trance Hall.’

Even Ron laughed. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney looked high­ly af­front­ed.

‘Com­ing?’ Har­ry said to Hermione.

‘No,’ Hermione mut­tered. ‘I want a quick word with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.’

‘Prob­ably try­ing to see if she can take any more class­es,’ yawned Ron as they made their way in­to the En­trance Hall, which was com­plete­ly de­void of mad axe-​men.

When they reached the por­trait hole they found Sir Cado­gan en­joy­ing a Christ­mas par­ty with a cou­ple of monks, sev­er­al pre­vi­ous head­mas­ters of Hog­warts and his fat pony. He pushed up his vi­sor and toast­ed them with a flagon of mead.

‘Mer­ry – hic – Christ­mas! Pass­word?’

‘Scurvy cur,’ said Ron.

‘And the same to you, sir!’ roared Sir Cado­gan, as the paint­ing swung for­ward to ad­mit them.

Har­ry went straight up to the dor­mi­to­ry, col­lect­ed his Fire­bolt and the Broom­stick Ser­vic­ing Kit Hermione had giv­en him for his birth­day, brought them down­stairs and tried to find some­thing to do to the Fire­bolt; how­ev­er, there were no bent twigs to clip, and the han­dle was so shiny al­ready it seemed point­less to pol­ish it. He and Ron sim­ply sat ad­mir­ing it from ev­ery an­gle, un­til the por­trait hole opened, and Hermione came in, ac­com­pa­nied by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Though Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was Head of Gryffind­or house, Har­ry had on­ly seen her in the com­mon room once be­fore, and that had been to make a very grave an­nounce­ment. He and Ron stared at her, both hold­ing the Fire­bolt. Hermione walked around them, sat down, picked up the near­est book and hid her face be­hind it.

‘So that’s it, is it?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall bead­ily, walk­ing over to the fire­side and star­ing at the Fire­bolt. ‘Miss Granger has just in­formed me that you have been sent a broom­stick, Pot­ter.’

Har­ry and Ron looked around at Hermione. They could see her fore­head red­den­ing over the top of her book, which was up­side-​down.

‘May I?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, but she didn’t wait for an an­swer be­fore pulling the Fire­bolt out of their hands. She ex­am­ined it care­ful­ly from han­dle to twig-​ends. ‘Hmm. And there was no note at all, Pot­ter? No card? No mes­sage of any kind?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry blankly.

‘I see …’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Well, I’m afraid I will have to take this, Pot­ter.’

‘W-​what?’ said Har­ry, scram­bling to his feet. ‘Why?’

‘It will need to be checked for jinx­es,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘Of course, I’m no ex­pert, but I dare­say Madam Hooch and Pro­fes­sor Flitwick will strip it down –’

‘Strip it down?’ re­peat­ed Ron, as though Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was mad.

‘It shouldn’t take more than a few weeks,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘You will have it back if we are sure it is jinx-​free.’

‘There’s noth­ing wrong with it!’ said Har­ry, his voice shak­ing slight­ly. ‘Hon­est­ly, Pro­fes­sor –’

‘You can’t know that, Pot­ter,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, quite kind­ly, ‘not un­til you’ve flown it, at any rate, and I’m afraid that is out of the ques­tion un­til we are cer­tain that it has not been tam­pered with. I shall keep you in­formed.’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned on her heel and car­ried the Fire­bolt out of the por­trait hole, which closed be­hind her. Har­ry stood star­ing af­ter her, the tin of High-​Fin­ish Pol­ish still clutched in his hands. Ron, how­ev­er, round­ed on Hermione.

‘What did you go run­ning to McG­ona­gall for?’

Hermione threw her book aside. She was still pink in the face, but stood up and faced Ron de­fi­ant­ly.

‘Be­cause I thought – and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall agrees with me – that that broom was prob­ably sent to Har­ry by Sir­ius Black!’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TWELVE


The Pa­tronus



Har­ry knew that Hermione had meant well, but that didn’t stop him be­ing an­gry with her. He had been the own­er of the best broom in the world for a few short hours, and now, be­cause of her in­ter­fer­ence, he didn’t know whether he would ev­er see it again. He was pos­itive that there was noth­ing wrong with the Fire­bolt now, but what sort of state would it be in once it had been sub­ject­ed to all sorts of an­ti-​jinx tests?

Ron was fu­ri­ous with Hermione, too. As far as he was con­cerned, the strip­ping-​down of a brand-​new Fire­bolt was noth­ing less than crim­inal dam­age. Hermione, who re­mained con­vinced that she had act­ed for the best, start­ed avoid­ing the com­mon room. Har­ry and Ron sup­posed she had tak­en refuge in the li­brary, and didn’t try and per­suade her to come back. All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school re­turned short­ly af­ter New Year, and Gryffind­or Tow­er be­came crowd­ed and noisy again.

Wood sought Har­ry out on the night be­fore term start­ed.

‘Had a good Christ­mas?’ he said, and then, with­out wait­ing for an an­swer, he sat down, low­ered his voice and said, ‘I’ve been do­ing some think­ing over Christ­mas, Har­ry. Af­ter last match, you know. If the De­men­tors come to the next one … I mean … we can’t af­ford you to – well –’

Wood broke off, look­ing awk­ward.

‘I’m work­ing on it,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin said he’d train me to ward the De­men­tors off. We should be start­ing this week; he said he’d have time af­ter Christ­mas.’

‘Ah,’ said Wood, his ex­pres­sion clear­ing. ‘Well, in that case – I re­al­ly didn’t want to lose you as Seek­er, Har­ry. And have you or­dered a new broom yet?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry.

‘What! You’d bet­ter get a move on, you know – you can’t ride that Shoot­ing Star against Raven­claw!’

‘He got a Fire­bolt for Christ­mas,’ said Ron.

‘A Fire­bolt? No! Se­ri­ous­ly? A – a re­al Fire­bolt?’

‘Don’t get ex­cit­ed, Oliv­er,’ said Har­ry gloomi­ly. ‘I haven’t got it any more. It was con­fis­cat­ed.’ And he ex­plained all about how the Fire­bolt was now be­ing checked for jinx­es.

‘Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?’

‘Sir­ius Black,’ Har­ry said weari­ly. ‘He’s sup­posed to be af­ter me. So McG­ona­gall reck­ons he might have sent it.’

Wav­ing aside the in­for­ma­tion that a fa­mous mur­der­er was af­ter his Seek­er, Wood said, ‘But Black couldn’t have bought a Fire­bolt! He’s on the run! The whole coun­try’s on the look­out for him! How could he just walk in­to Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies and buy a broom­stick?’

‘I know,’ said Har­ry, ‘but McG­ona­gall still wants to strip it down –’

Wood went pale.

‘I’ll go and talk to her, Har­ry,’ he promised. ‘I’ll make her see rea­son … a Fire­bolt … a re­al Fire­bolt, on our team … she wants Gryffind­or to win as much as we do … I’ll make her see sense … a Fire­bolt …’

*

Lessons start­ed again next day. The last thing any­one felt like do­ing was spend­ing two hours in the grounds on a raw, Jan­uary morn­ing, but Ha­grid had pro­vid­ed a bon­fire full of sala­man­ders for their en­joy­ment, and they spent an un­usu­al­ly good les­son col­lect­ing dry wood and leaves to keep the fire blaz­ing, while the flame-​lov­ing lizards scam­pered up and down the crum­bling, white-​hot logs. The first Div­ina­tion les­son of the new term was much less fun; Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was now teach­ing them palm­istry, and she lost no time in in­form­ing Har­ry that he had the short­est life-​lines she had ev­er seen.

It was De­fence Against the Dark Arts that Har­ry was keen to get to; af­ter his con­ver­sa­tion with Wood, he want­ed to get start­ed on his An­ti-​De­men­tor lessons as soon as pos­si­ble.

‘Ah yes,’ said Lupin, when Har­ry re­mind­ed him of his promise at the end of class. ‘Let me see … how about eight o’clock on Thurs­day evening? The His­to­ry of Mag­ic class­room should be large enough … I’ll have to think care­ful­ly about how we’re go­ing to do this … we can’t bring a re­al De­men­tor in­to the cas­tle to prac­tise on …’

‘Still looks ill, doesn’t he?’ said Ron, as they walked down the cor­ri­dor, head­ing to din­ner. ‘What d’you reck­on’s the mat­ter with him?’

There was a loud and im­pa­tient ‘tuh’ from be­hind them. It was Hermione, who had been sit­ting at the feet of a suit of ar­mour, repack­ing her bag, which was so full of books it wouldn’t close.

‘And what are you tut­ting at us for?’ said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly.

‘Noth­ing,’ said Hermione in a lofty voice, heav­ing her bag back over her shoul­der.

‘Yes, you were,’ said Ron. ‘I said I won­der what’s wrong with Lupin, and you –’

‘Well, isn’t it ob­vi­ous?’ said Hermione, with a look of mad­den­ing su­pe­ri­or­ity.

‘If you don’t want to tell us, don’t,’ snapped Ron.

‘Fine,’ said Hermione haugh­ti­ly, and she marched off.

‘She doesn’t know,’ said Ron, star­ing re­sent­ful­ly af­ter Hermione.

‘She’s just try­ing to get us to talk to her again.’

*

At eight o’clock on Thurs­day evening, Har­ry left Gryffind­or Tow­er for the His­to­ry of Mag­ic class­room. It was dark and emp­ty when he ar­rived, but he lit the lamps with his wand and had wait­ed on­ly five min­utes when Pro­fes­sor Lupin turned up, car­ry­ing a large pack­ing case, which he heaved on­to Pro­fes­sor Binn’s desk.

‘What’s that?’ said Har­ry.

‘An­oth­er Bog­gart,’ said Lupin, strip­ping off his cloak. ‘I’ve been comb­ing the cas­tle ev­er since Tues­day, and very luck­ily, I found this one lurk­ing in­side Mr Filch’s fil­ing cab­inet. It’s the near­est we’ll get to a re­al De­men­tor. The Bog­gart will turn in­to a De­men­tor when he sees you, so we’ll be able to prac­tise on him. I can store him in my of­fice when we’re not us­ing him; there’s a cup­board un­der my desk he’ll like.’

‘OK,’ said Har­ry, try­ing to sound as though he wasn’t ap­pre­hen­sive at all and mere­ly glad that Lupin had found such a good sub­sti­tute for a re­al De­men­tor.

‘So …’ Pro­fes­sor Lupin had tak­en out his own wand, and in­di­cat­ed that Har­ry should do the same. ‘The spell I am go­ing to try and teach you is high­ly ad­vanced mag­ic, Har­ry – well be­yond Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­el. It is called the Pa­tronus Charm.’

‘How does it work?’ said Har­ry ner­vous­ly.

‘Well, when it works cor­rect­ly, it con­jures up a Pa­tronus,’ said Lupin, ‘which is a kind of An­ti-​De­men­tor – a guardian which acts as a shield be­tween you and the De­men­tor.’

Har­ry had a sud­den vi­sion of him­self crouch­ing be­hind a Ha­grid-​sized fig­ure hold­ing a large club. Pro­fes­sor Lupin con­tin­ued, ‘The Pa­tronus is a kind of pos­itive force, a pro­jec­tion of the very things that the De­men­tor feeds up­on – hope, hap­pi­ness, the de­sire to sur­vive – but it can­not feel de­spair, as re­al hu­mans can, so the De­men­tors can’t hurt it. But I must warn you, Har­ry, that the Charm might be too ad­vanced for you. Many qual­ified wiz­ards have dif­fi­cul­ty with it.’

‘What does a Pa­tronus look like?’ said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

‘Each one is unique to the wiz­ard who con­jures it.’

‘And how do you con­jure it?’

‘With an in­can­ta­tion, which will work on­ly if you are con­cen­trat­ing, with all your might, on a sin­gle, very hap­py mem­ory.’

Har­ry cast about for a hap­py mem­ory. Cer­tain­ly, noth­ing that had hap­pened to him at the Durs­leys’ was go­ing to do. Fi­nal­ly, he set­tled on the mo­ment when he had first rid­den a broom­stick.

‘Right,’ he said, try­ing to re­call as ex­act­ly as pos­si­ble the won­der­ful, soar­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach.

‘The in­can­ta­tion is this –’ Lupin cleared his throat, ‘ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um,’ Har­ry re­peat­ed un­der his breath, ‘ex­pec­to pa­tron­um.’

‘Con­cen­trat­ing hard on your hap­py mem­ory?’

‘Oh – yeah –’ said Har­ry, quick­ly forc­ing his thoughts back to that first broom-​ride. ‘Ex­pec­to pa­trono – no, pa­tron­um – sor­ry – ex­pec­to pa­tron­um, ex­pec­to pa­tron­um –’

Some­thing whooshed sud­den­ly out of the end of his wand; it looked like a wisp of sil­very gas.

‘Did you see that?’ said Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly. ‘Some­thing hap­pened!’

‘Very good,’ said Lupin, smil­ing. ‘Right then – ready to try it on a De­men­tor?’

‘Yes,’ Har­ry said, grip­ping his wand very tight­ly, and mov­ing in­to the mid­dle of the de­sert­ed class­room. He tried to keep his mind on fly­ing, but some­thing else kept in­trud­ing … any sec­ond now, he might hear his moth­er again … but he shouldn’t think that, or he would hear her again, and he didn’t want to … or did he?

Lupin grasped the lid of the pack­ing case and pulled.

A De­men­tor rose slow­ly from the box, its hood­ed face turned to­wards Har­ry, one glis­ten­ing, scabbed hand grip­ping its cloak. The lamps around the class­room flick­ered and went out. The De­men­tor stepped from the box and start­ed to sweep silent­ly to­wards Har­ry, draw­ing a deep, rat­tling breath. A wave of pierc­ing cold broke over him –

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Ex­pec­to –’

But the class­room and the De­men­tor were dis­solv­ing … Har­ry was falling again through thick white fog, and his moth­er’s voice was loud­er than ev­er, echo­ing in­side his head – ‘Not Har­ry! Not Har­ry! Please – I’ll do any­thing –’

‘Stand aside – stand aside, girl –’

‘Har­ry!’

Har­ry jerked back to life. He was ly­ing flat on his back on the floor. The class­room lamps were alight again. He didn’t have to ask what had hap­pened.

‘Sor­ry,’ he mut­tered, sit­ting up and feel­ing cold sweat trick­ling down be­hind his glass­es.

‘Are you all right?’ said Lupin.

‘Yes …’ Har­ry pulled him­self up on one of the desks and leaned against it.

‘Here –’ Lupin hand­ed him a Choco­late Frog. ‘Eat this be­fore we try again. I didn’t ex­pect you to do it first time. In fact, I would have been as­tound­ed if you had.’

‘It’s get­ting worse,’ Har­ry mut­tered, bit­ing the Frog’s head off. ‘I could hear her loud­er that time – and him – Volde­mort –’

Lupin looked paler than usu­al.

‘Har­ry if you don’t want to con­tin­ue, I will more than un­der­stand –’

‘I do!’ said Har­ry fierce­ly, stuff­ing the rest of the Choco­late Frog in­to his mouth. ‘I’ve got to! What if the De­men­tors turn up at our match against Raven­claw? I can’t af­ford to fall off again. If we lose this game we’ve lost the Quid­ditch Cup!’

‘All right then …’ said Lupin. ‘You might want to se­lect an­oth­er mem­ory, a hap­py mem­ory, I mean, to con­cen­trate on … that one doesn’t seem to have been strong enough …’

Har­ry thought hard, and de­cid­ed his feel­ings when Gryffind­or had won the House Cham­pi­onship last year had def­inite­ly qual­ified as very hap­py. He gripped his wand tight­ly again, and took up his po­si­tion in the mid­dle of the class­room.

‘Ready?’ said Lupin, grip­ping the box lid.

‘Ready’ said Har­ry, try­ing hard to fill his head with hap­py thoughts about Gryffind­or win­ning, and not dark thoughts about what was go­ing to hap­pen when the box opened.

‘Go!’ said Lupin, pulling off the lid. The room went ici­ly cold and dark once more. The De­men­tor glid­ed for­wards, draw­ing its rat­tly breath; one rot­ting hand was ex­tend­ing to­wards Har­ry –

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Ex­pec­to pat –’

White fog ob­scured his sens­es … big, blurred shapes were mov­ing around him … then came a new voice, a man’s voice, shout­ing, pan­ick­ing –

‘Lily, take Har­ry and go! It’s Him! Go! Run! I’ll hold him off –’

The sounds of some­one stum­bling from a room – a door burst­ing open – a cack­le of high-​pitched laugh­ter –

‘Har­ry! Har­ry … wake up …’

Lupin was tap­ping Har­ry hard on the face. This time it was a minute be­fore Har­ry un­der­stood why he was ly­ing on a dusty class­room floor.

‘I heard my dad,’ Har­ry mum­bled. ‘That’s the first time I’ve ev­er heard him – he tried to take on Volde­mort him­self, to give my mum time to run for it …’

Har­ry sud­den­ly re­alised that there were tears on his face min­gling with the sweat. He bent his face low as pos­si­ble, wip­ing them off on his robes, pre­tend­ing to do up his shoelace, so that Lupin wouldn’t see.

‘You heard James?’ said Lupin, in a strange voice.

‘Yeah …’ Face dry, Har­ry looked up. ‘Why – you didn’t know my dad, did you?’

‘I – I did, as a mat­ter of fact,’ said Lupin. ‘We were friends at Hog­warts. Lis­ten, Har­ry – per­haps we should leave it here for tonight. This charm is ridicu­lous­ly ad­vanced … I shouldn’t have sug­gest­ed putting you through this …’

‘No!’ said Har­ry. He got up again. ‘I’ll have one more go! I’m not think­ing of hap­py enough things, that’s what it is … hang on …’

He racked his brains. A re­al­ly, re­al­ly hap­py mem­ory … one that he could turn in­to a good, strong Pa­tronus …

The mo­ment when he’d first found out he was a wiz­ard, and would be leav­ing the Durs­leys for Hog­warts! If that wasn’t a hap­py mem­ory, he didn’t know what was … con­cen­trat­ing very hard on how he had felt when he’d re­alised he’d be leav­ing Priv­et Drive, Har­ry got to his feet and faced the pack­ing case once more.

‘Ready?’ said Lupin, who looked as though he was do­ing this against his bet­ter judge­ment. ‘Con­cen­trat­ing hard? All right – go!’

He pulled off the lid of the case for the third time, and the De­men­tor rose out of it; the room fell cold and dark –

‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’ Har­ry bel­lowed. ‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM! EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’

The scream­ing in­side Har­ry’s head had start­ed again – ex­cept this time, it sound­ed as though it was com­ing from a bad­ly tuned ra­dio. Soft­er and loud­er and soft­er again … and he could still see the De­men­tor … it had halt­ed … and then a huge, sil­ver shad­ow came burst­ing out of the end of Har­ry’s wand, to hov­er be­tween him and the De­men­tor, and though Har­ry’s legs felt like wa­ter, he was still on his feet … though for how much longer, he wasn’t sure …

‘Rid­diku­lus!’ roared Lupin, spring­ing for­wards.

There was a loud crack, and Har­ry’s cloudy Pa­tronus van­ished along with the De­men­tor; he sank in­to a chair, feel­ing as ex­haust­ed as if he’d just run a mile, his legs shak­ing. Out of the cor­ner of his eye, he saw Pro­fes­sor Lupin forc­ing the Bog­gart back in­to the pack­ing case with his wand; it had turned in­to a sil­very orb again.

‘Ex­cel­lent!’ Lupin said, strid­ing over to where Har­ry sat. ‘Ex­cel­lent, Har­ry! That was def­inite­ly a start!’

‘Can we have an­oth­er go? Just one more go?’

‘Not now,’ said Lupin firm­ly. ‘You’ve had enough for one night. Here –’

He hand­ed Har­ry a large bar of Hon­ey­dukes’ best choco­late.

‘Eat the lot, or Madam Pom­frey will be af­ter my blood. Same time next week?’

‘OK,’ said Har­ry. He took a bite of the choco­late and watched Lupin ex­tin­guish­ing the lamps that had rekin­dled with the dis­ap­pear­ance of the De­men­tor. A thought had just oc­curred to him.

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin?’ he said. ‘If you knew my dad, you must’ve known Sir­ius Black as well.’

Lupin turned very quick­ly.

‘What gives you that idea?’ he said sharply.

‘Noth­ing – I mean, I just knew they were friends at Hog­warts, too …’

Lupin’s face re­laxed.

‘Yes, I knew him,’ he said short­ly. ‘Or I thought I did. You’d bet­ter get off, Har­ry, it’s get­ting late.’

Har­ry left the class­room, walked along the cor­ri­dor and around a cor­ner, than took a de­tour be­hind a suit of ar­mour and sank down on its plinth to fin­ish his choco­late, wish­ing he hadn’t men­tioned Black, as Lupin was ob­vi­ous­ly not keen on the sub­ject. Then Har­ry’s thoughts wan­dered back to his moth­er and fa­ther …

He felt drained and strange­ly emp­ty, even though he was so full of choco­late. Ter­ri­ble though it was to hear his par­ents’ last mo­ments re­played in­side his head, these were the on­ly times Har­ry had heard their voic­es since he was a very small child. But he’d nev­er be able to pro­duce a prop­er Pa­tronus if he half-​want­ed to hear his par­ents again …

‘They’re dead,’ he told him­self stern­ly. ‘They’re dead, and lis­ten­ing to echoes of them won’t bring them back. You’d bet­ter get a grip on your­self if you want that Quid­ditch Cup.’

He stood up, crammed the last bit of choco­late in­to his mouth and head­ed back to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

*

Raven­claw played Slytherin a week af­ter the start of term. Slytherin won, though nar­row­ly. Ac­cord­ing to Wood, this was good news for Gryffind­or, who would take sec­ond place if they beat Raven­claw too. He there­fore in­creased the num­ber of team prac­tices to five a week. This meant that with Lupin’s An­ti-​De­men­tor class­es, which in them­selves were more drain­ing than six Quid­ditch prac­tices, Har­ry had just one night a week to do all his home­work. Even so, he wasn’t show­ing the strain near­ly as much as Hermione, whose im­mense work­load fi­nal­ly seemed to be get­ting to her. Ev­ery night, with­out fail, Hermione was to be seen in a cor­ner of the com­mon room, sev­er­al ta­bles spread with books, Arith­man­cy charts, Rune dic­tio­nar­ies, di­agrams of Mug­gles lift­ing heavy ob­jects, and file up­on file of ex­ten­sive notes; she bare­ly spoke to any­body, and snapped when she was in­ter­rupt­ed.

‘How’s she do­ing it?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry one evening, as Har­ry sat fin­ish­ing a nasty es­say on Un­de­tectable Poi­sons for Snape. Har­ry looked up. Hermione was bare­ly vis­ible be­hind a tot­ter­ing pile of books.

‘Do­ing what?’

‘Get­ting to all her class­es!’ Ron said. ‘I heard her talk­ing to Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor, that Arith­man­cy witch, this morn­ing. They were go­ing on about yes­ter­day’s les­son, but Hermione can’t’ve been there, be­cause she was with us in Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures! And Ernie McMil­lan told me she’s nev­er missed a Mug­gle Stud­ies class, but half of them are at the same time as Div­ina­tion, and she’s nev­er missed one of them, ei­ther!’

Har­ry didn’t have time to fath­om the mys­tery of Hermione’s im­pos­si­ble timetable at the mo­ment; he re­al­ly need­ed to get on with Snape’s es­say. Two sec­onds lat­er, how­ev­er, he was in­ter­rupt­ed again, this time by Wood.

‘Bad news, Har­ry. I’ve just been to see Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall about the Fire­bolt. She – er – got a bit shir­ty with me. Told me I’d got my pri­or­ities wrong. Seemed to think I cared more about win­ning the Cup than I do about you stay­ing alive. Just be­cause I told her I didn’t care if it threw you off, as long as you caught the Snitch on it first.’ Wood shook his head in dis­be­lief. ‘Hon­est­ly, the way she was yelling at me … you’d think I’d said some­thing ter­ri­ble. Then I asked her how much longer she was go­ing to keep it …’ He screwed up his face and im­itat­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s se­vere voice, ‘‘As long as nec­es­sary, Wood’ … I reck­on it’s time you or­dered a new broom, Har­ry. There’s an or­der form at the back of Which Broom­stick … you could get a Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and One, like Mal­foy’s got.’

‘I’m not buy­ing any­thing Mal­foy thinks is good,’ said Har­ry flat­ly.

*

Jan­uary fad­ed im­per­cep­ti­bly in­to Febru­ary, with no change in the bit­ter­ly cold weath­er. The match against Raven­claw was draw­ing near­er and near­er, but Har­ry still hadn’t or­dered a new broom. He was now ask­ing Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall for news of the Fire­bolt af­ter ev­ery Trans­fig­ura­tion les­son, Ron stand­ing hope­ful­ly at his shoul­der, Hermione rush­ing past with her face avert­ed.

‘No, Pot­ter, you can’t have it back yet,’ Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told him the twelfth time this hap­pened, be­fore he’d even opened his mouth. ‘We’ve checked for most of the usu­al curs­es, but Pro­fes­sor Flitwick be­lieves the broom might be car­ry­ing a Hurl­ing Hex. I shall tell you once we’ve fin­ished check­ing it. Now, please stop bad­ger­ing me.’

To make mat­ters even worse, Har­ry’s An­ti-​De­men­tor lessons were not go­ing near­ly as well as he had hoped. Sev­er­al ses­sions on, he was able to pro­duce an in­dis­tinct, sil­very shad­ow ev­ery time the Bog­gart-​De­men­tor ap­proached him, but his Pa­tronus was too fee­ble to drive the De­men­tor away. All it did was hov­er, like a se­mi-​trans­par­ent cloud, drain­ing Har­ry of en­er­gy as he fought to keep it there. Har­ry felt an­gry with him­self, guilty about his se­cret de­sire to hear his par­ents’ voic­es again.

‘You’re ex­pect­ing too much of your­self,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin stern­ly, in their fourth week of prac­tice. ‘For a thir­teen-​year-​old wiz­ard, even an in­dis­tinct Pa­tronus is a huge achieve­ment. You aren’t pass­ing out any more, are you?’

‘I thought a Pa­tronus would – charge the De­men­tors down or some­thing,’ said Har­ry dispirit­ed­ly. ‘Make them dis­ap­pear –’

‘The true Pa­tronus does do that,’ said Lupin. ‘But you’ve achieved a great deal in a very short space of time. If the De­men­tors put in an ap­pear­ance at your next Quid­ditch match, you will be able to keep them at bay long enough to get back to the ground.’

‘You said it’s hard­er if there are loads of them,’ said Har­ry.

‘I have com­plete con­fi­dence in you,’ said Lupin, smil­ing. ‘Here – you’ve earned a drink. Some­thing from the Three Broom­sticks, you won’t have tried it be­fore –’

He pulled two bot­tles out of his brief­case.

‘But­ter­beer!’ said Har­ry, with­out think­ing. ‘Yeah, I like that stuff!’

Lupin raised an eye­brow.

‘Oh – Ron and Hermione brought me some back from Hogsmeade,’ Har­ry lied quick­ly.

‘I see,’ said Lupin, though he still looked slight­ly sus­pi­cious. ‘Well – let’s drink to a Gryffind­or vic­to­ry against Raven­claw! Not that I’m sup­posed to take sides, as a teach­er …’ he added hasti­ly.

They drank the But­ter­beer in si­lence, un­til Har­ry voiced some­thing he’d been won­der­ing for a while.

‘What’s un­der a De­men­tor’s hood?’

Pro­fes­sor Lupin low­ered his bot­tle thought­ful­ly.

‘Hm­mm … well, the on­ly peo­ple who re­al­ly know are in no con­di­tion to tell us. You see, the De­men­tor on­ly low­ers its hood to use its last and worst weapon.’

‘What’s that?’

‘They call it the De­men­tors’ Kiss,’ said Lupin, with a slight­ly twist­ed smile. ‘It’s what De­men­tors do to those they wish to de­stroy ut­ter­ly. I sup­pose there must be some kind of mouth un­der there, be­cause they clamp their jaws up­on the mouth of the vic­tim and – and suck out his soul.’

Har­ry ac­ci­den­tal­ly spat out a bit of But­ter­beer.

‘What – they kill –?’

‘Oh, no,’ said Lupin. ‘Much worse than that. You can ex­ist with­out your soul, you know, as long as your brain and heart are still work­ing. But you’ll have no sense of self any more, no mem­ory, no … any­thing. There’s no chance at all of re­cov­ery. You’ll just – ex­ist. As an emp­ty shell. And your soul is gone for ev­er … lost.’

Lupin drank a lit­tle more But­ter­beer, then said, ‘It’s the fate that awaits Sir­ius Black. It was in the Dai­ly Prophet this morn­ing. The Min­istry have giv­en the De­men­tors per­mis­sion to per­form it if they find him.’

Har­ry sat stunned for a mo­ment at the idea of some­one hav­ing their soul sucked out through their mouth. But then he thought of Black.

‘He de­serves it,’ he said sud­den­ly.

‘You think so?’ said Lupin light­ly. ‘Do you re­al­ly think any­one de­serves that?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry de­fi­ant­ly. ‘For … for some things …’

He would have liked to have told Lupin about the con­ver­sa­tion he’d over­heard about Black in the Three Broom­sticks, about Black be­tray­ing his moth­er and fa­ther, but it would have in­volved re­veal­ing that he’d gone to Hogsmeade with­out per­mis­sion, and he knew Lupin wouldn’t be very im­pressed by that. So he fin­ished his But­ter­beer, thanked Lupin, and left the His­to­ry of Mag­ic class­room.

Har­ry half-​wished that he hadn’t asked what was un­der a De­men­tor’s hood, the an­swer had been so hor­ri­ble, and he was so lost in un­pleas­ant thoughts of what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of you, that he walked head­long in­to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall halfway up the stairs.

‘Do watch where you’re go­ing, Pot­ter!’

‘Sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor –’

‘I’ve just been look­ing for you in the Gryffind­or com­mon room. Well, here it is, we’ve done ev­ery­thing we could think of, and there doesn’t seem to be any­thing wrong with it at all – you’ve got a very good friend some­where, Pot­ter …’

Har­ry’s jaw dropped. She was hold­ing out his Fire­bolt, and it looked as mag­nif­icent as ev­er.

‘I can have it back?’ Har­ry said weak­ly. ‘Se­ri­ous­ly?’

‘Se­ri­ous­ly,’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and she was ac­tu­al­ly smil­ing. ‘I dare­say you’ll need to get the feel of it be­fore Sat­ur­day’s match, won’t you? And Pot­ter – do try and win, won’t you? Or we’ll be out of the run­ning for the eighth year in a row, as Pro­fes­sor Snape was kind enough to re­mind me on­ly last night …’

Speech­less, Har­ry car­ried the Fire­bolt back up­stairs to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er. As he turned a cor­ner, he saw Ron dash­ing to­wards him, grin­ning from ear to ear.

‘She gave it to you? Ex­cel­lent! Lis­ten, can I still have a go on it? To­mor­row?’

‘Yeah … any­thing …’ said Har­ry, his heart lighter than it had been in a month. ‘You know what – we should make it up with Hermione. She was on­ly try­ing to help …’

‘Yeah, all right,’ said Ron. ‘She’s in the com­mon room now – work­ing, for a change.’

They turned in­to the cor­ri­dor to Gryffind­or Tow­er and saw Neville Long­bot­tom, plead­ing with Sir Cado­gan, who seemed to be re­fus­ing him en­trance.

‘I wrote them down,’ Neville was say­ing tear­ful­ly, ‘but I must’ve dropped them some­where!’

‘A like­ly tale!’ roared Sir Cado­gan. Then, spot­ting Har­ry and Ron, ‘Good even, my fine young yeomen! Come clap this loon in irons, he is try­ing to force en­try to the cham­bers with­in!’

‘Oh, shut up,’ said Ron, as he and Har­ry drew lev­el with Neville.

‘I’ve lost the pass­words!’ Neville told them mis­er­ably. ‘I made him tell me what pass­words he was go­ing to use this week, be­cause he keeps chang­ing them, and now I don’t know what I’ve done with them!’

‘Odd­sbodikins,’ said Har­ry to Sir Cado­gan, who looked ex­treme­ly dis­ap­point­ed and re­luc­tant­ly swung for­wards to let them in­to the com­mon room. There was a sud­den, ex­cit­ed mur­mur as ev­ery head turned and the next mo­ment, Har­ry was sur­round­ed by peo­ple ex­claim­ing over his Fire­bolt.

‘Where’d you get it, Har­ry?’

‘Will you let me have a go?’

‘Have you rid­den it yet, Har­ry?’

‘Raven­claw’ll have no chance, they’re all on Clean­sweep Sev­ens!’

‘Can I just hold it, Har­ry?’

Af­ter ten min­utes or so, dur­ing which the Fire­bolt was passed around and ad­mired from ev­ery an­gle, the crowd dis­persed and Har­ry and Ron had a clear view of Hermione, the on­ly per­son who hadn’t rushed over to them, bent over her work, and care­ful­ly avoid­ing their eyes. Har­ry and Ron ap­proached her ta­ble and at last, she looked up.

‘I got it back,’ said Har­ry, grin­ning at her and hold­ing up the Fire­bolt.

‘See, Hermione? There wasn’t any­thing wrong with it!’ said Ron.

‘Well – there might have been!’ said Hermione. ‘I mean, at least you know now that it’s safe!’

‘Yeah, I sup­pose so,’ said Har­ry. ‘I’d bet­ter put it up­stairs –’

‘I’ll take it!’ said Ron ea­ger­ly. ‘I’ve got to give Scab­bers his Rat Ton­ic.’

He took the Fire­bolt, and, hold­ing it as if it were made of glass, car­ried it away up the boys’ stair­case.

‘Can I sit down, then?’ Har­ry asked Hermione.

‘I sup­pose so,’ said Hermione, mov­ing a great stack of parch­ment off a chair.

Har­ry looked around at the clut­tered ta­ble, at the long Arith­man­cy es­say on which the ink was still glis­ten­ing, at the even longer Mug­gle Stud­ies es­say (‘Ex­plain why Mug­gles Need Elec­tric­ity’) and at the Rune trans­la­tion Hermione was now por­ing over.

‘How are you get­ting through all this stuff?’ Har­ry asked her.

‘Oh, well – you know – work­ing hard,’ said Hermione. Close to, Har­ry saw that she looked al­most as tired as Lupin.

‘Why don’t you just drop a cou­ple of sub­jects?’ Har­ry asked, watch­ing her lift­ing books as she searched for her Rune dic­tio­nary.

‘I couldn’t do that!’ said Hermione, look­ing scan­dalised.

‘Arith­man­cy looks ter­ri­ble,’ said Har­ry, pick­ing up a very com­pli­cat­ed-​look­ing num­ber chart.

‘Oh, no, it’s won­der­ful!’ said Hermione earnest­ly. ‘It’s my favourite sub­ject! It’s –’

But ex­act­ly what was won­der­ful about Arith­man­cy, Har­ry nev­er found out. At that pre­cise mo­ment, a stran­gled yell echoed down the boys’ stair­case. The whole com­mon room fell silent, star­ing, pet­ri­fied, at the en­trance. There came hur­ried foot­steps, grow­ing loud­er and loud­er – and then, Ron came leap­ing in­to view, drag­ging with him a bed­sheet.

‘LOOK!’ he bel­lowed, strid­ing over to Hermione’s ta­ble. ‘LOOK!’ he yelled, shak­ing the sheets in her face.

‘Ron, what –?’

‘SCAB­BERS! LOOK! SCAB­BERS!’

Hermione was lean­ing away from Ron, look­ing ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered. Har­ry looked down at the sheet Ron was hold­ing. There was some­thing red on it. Some­thing that looked hor­ri­bly like –

‘BLOOD!’ Ron yelled in­to the stunned si­lence. ‘HE’S GONE! AND YOU KNOW WHAT WAS ON THE FLOOR?’

‘N-​no,’ said Hermione, in a trem­bling voice.

Ron threw some­thing down on­to Hermione’s Rune trans­la­tion. Hermione and Har­ry leaned for­ward. Ly­ing on top of the weird, spiky shapes were sev­er­al long, gin­ger cat hairs.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER THIRTEEN


Gryffind­or ver­sus Raven­claw



It looked like the end of Ron and Hermione’s friend­ship. Each was so an­gry with the oth­er that Har­ry couldn’t see how they’d ev­er make it up.

Ron was en­raged that Hermione had nev­er tak­en Crook­shanks’s at­tempts to eat Scab­bers se­ri­ous­ly, hadn’t both­ered to keep a close enough watch on him and was still try­ing to pre­tend that Crook­shanks was in­no­cent by sug­gest­ing Ron look for Scab­bers un­der all the boys’ beds. Hermione, mean­while, main­tained fierce­ly that Ron had no proof that Crook­shanks had eat­en Scab­bers, that the gin­ger hairs might have been there since Christ­mas, and that Ron had been prej­udiced against her cat ev­er since Crook­shanks had land­ed on Ron’s head in the Mag­ical Menagerie.

Per­son­al­ly, Har­ry was sure that Crook­shanks had eat­en Scab­bers, and when he tried to point out to Hermione that the ev­idence all point­ed that way, she lost her tem­per with Har­ry, too.

‘OK, side with Ron, I knew you would!’ she said shril­ly. ‘First the Fire­bolt, now Scab­bers, ev­ery­thing’s my fault, isn’t it! Just leave me alone, Har­ry, I’ve got a lot of work to do!’

Ron had tak­en the loss of his rat very hard in­deed.

‘Come on, Ron, you were al­ways say­ing how bor­ing Scab­bers was,’ said Fred brac­ing­ly. ‘And he’s been off colour for ages, he was wast­ing away. It was prob­ably bet­ter for him to snuff it quick­ly. One swal­low – he prob­ably didn’t feel a thing.’

‘Fred!’ said Gin­ny in­dig­nant­ly.

‘All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it your­self,’ said George.

‘He bit Goyle for us once!’ Ron said mis­er­ably. ‘Re­mem­ber, Har­ry?’

‘Yeah, that’s true,’ said Har­ry.

‘His finest hour,’ said Fred, un­able to keep a straight face. ‘Let the scar on Goyle’s fin­ger stand as a last­ing trib­ute to his mem­ory. Oh, come on, Ron, get your­self down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat. What’s the point of moan­ing?’

In a last-​ditch at­tempt to cheer Ron up, Har­ry per­suad­ed him to come along to the Gryffind­or team’s fi­nal prac­tice be­fore the Raven­claw match, so that he could have a go on the Fire­bolt af­ter they’d fin­ished. This did seem to take Ron’s mind off Scab­bers for a mo­ment (‘Bril­liant! Can I try and shoot a few goals on it?’) so they set off for the Quid­ditch pitch to­geth­er.

Madam Hooch, who was still over­see­ing Gryffind­or prac­tices to keep an eye on Har­ry was just as im­pressed with the Fire­bolt as ev­ery­one else had been. She took it in her hands be­fore take-​off and gave them the ben­efit of her pro­fes­sion­al opin­ion.

‘Look at the bal­ance on it! If the Nim­bus se­ries has a fault, it’s a slight list to the tail-​end – you of­ten find they de­vel­op a drag af­ter a few years. They’ve up­dat­ed the han­dle, too, a bit slim­mer than the Clean­sweeps, re­minds me of the old Sil­ver Ar­rows – a pity they’ve stopped mak­ing them, I learned to fly on one, and a very fine old broom it was too …’

She con­tin­ued in this vein for some time, un­til Wood said, ‘Er – Madam Hooch? Is it OK if Har­ry has the Fire­bolt back? On­ly we need to prac­tise …’

‘Oh – right – here you are, then, Pot­ter,’ said Madam Hooch. ‘I’ll sit over here with Weasley …’

She and Ron left the pitch to sit in the sta­di­um, and the Gryffind­or team gath­ered around Wood for his fi­nal in­struc­tions for to­mor­row’s match.

‘Har­ry, I’ve just found out who Raven­claw are play­ing as Seek­er. It’s Cho Chang. She’s a fourth-​year, and she’s pret­ty good … I re­al­ly hoped she wouldn’t be fit, she’s had some prob­lems with in­juries …’ Wood scowled his dis­plea­sure that Cho Chang had made a full re­cov­ery, then said, ‘On the oth­er hand, she rides a Comet Two Six­ty, which is go­ing to look like a joke next to the Fire­bolt.’ He gave Har­ry’s broom a look of fer­vent ad­mi­ra­tion, then said, ‘OK, ev­ery­one, let’s go –’

And at long last, Har­ry mount­ed his Fire­bolt, and kicked off from the ground.

It was bet­ter than he’d ev­er dreamed. The Fire­bolt turned with the light­est touch; it seemed to obey his thoughts rather than his grip. It sped across the pitch at such speed that the sta­di­um turned in­to a green and grey blur; Har­ry turned it so sharply that Ali­cia Spin­net screamed, then he went in­to a per­fect­ly con­trolled dive, brush­ing the grassy pitch with his toes be­fore ris­ing thir­ty, forty, fifty feet in­to the air again –

‘Har­ry, I’m let­ting the Snitch out!’ Wood called.

Har­ry turned and raced a Bludger to­wards the goal­posts; he out­stripped it eas­ily, saw the Snitch dart out from be­hind Wood and with­in ten sec­onds had caught it tight­ly in his hand.

The team cheered mad­ly. Har­ry let the Snitch go again, gave it a minute’s head start, then tore af­ter it, weav­ing in and out of the oth­ers; he spot­ted it lurk­ing near Katie Bell’s knee, looped her eas­ily, and caught it again.

It was the best prac­tice ev­er; the team, in­spired by the pres­ence of the Fire­bolt in their midst, per­formed their best moves fault­less­ly, and by the time they hit the ground again, Wood didn’t have a sin­gle crit­icism to make, which, as George Weasley point­ed out, was a first.

‘I can’t see what’s go­ing to stop us to­mor­row!’ said Wood. ‘Not un­less – Har­ry, you’ve sort­ed your De­men­tor prob­lem, haven’t you?’

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, think­ing of his fee­ble Pa­tronus and wish­ing it was stronger.

‘The De­men­tors won’t turn up again, Oliv­er, Dum­ble­dore’d do his nut,’ said Fred con­fi­dent­ly.

‘Well, let’s hope not,’ said Wood. ‘Any­way – good work, ev­ery­one. Let’s get back to the Tow­er – turn in ear­ly …’

‘I’m stay­ing out for a bit, Ron wants a go on the Fire­bolt,’ Har­ry told Wood, and while the rest of the team head­ed off to the chang­ing rooms, Har­ry strode over to Ron, who vault­ed the bar­ri­er to the stands and came to meet him. Madam Hooch had fall­en asleep in her seat.

‘Here you go,’ said Har­ry, hand­ing Ron the Fire­bolt.

Ron, an ex­pres­sion of ec­sta­sy on his face, mount­ed the broom and zoomed off in­to the gath­er­ing dark­ness while Har­ry walked around the edge of the pitch, watch­ing him. Night had fall­en be­fore Madam Hooch awoke with a start, told Har­ry and Ron off for not wak­ing her, and in­sist­ed that they go back to the cas­tle.

Har­ry shoul­dered the Fire­bolt and he and Ron walked out of the shad­owy sta­di­um, dis­cussing the Fire­bolt’s su­perbly smooth ac­tion, its phe­nom­enal ac­cel­er­ation and its pin­point turn­ing.

They were halfway to­wards the cas­tle when Har­ry, glanc­ing to his left, saw some­thing that made his heart turn over – a pair of eyes, gleam­ing out of the dark­ness.

Har­ry stopped dead, his heart bang­ing against his ribs.

‘What’s the mat­ter?’ said Ron.

Har­ry point­ed. Ron pulled out his wand and mut­tered, ‘Lu­mos!’

A beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bot­tom of a tree and il­lu­mi­nat­ed its branch­es; there, crouch­ing amongst the bud­ding leaves, was Crook­shanks.

‘Get out of it!’ Ron roared, and he stooped down and seized a stone ly­ing on the grass, but be­fore he could do any­thing else, Crook­shanks had van­ished with one swish of his long gin­ger tail.

‘See?’ Ron said fu­ri­ous­ly, chuck­ing the stone down again. ‘She’s still let­ting him wan­der about wher­ev­er he wants – prob­ably wash­ing down Scab­bers with a cou­ple of birds now …’

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. He took a deep breath as re­lief seeped through him; he had been sure for a mo­ment that those eyes had be­longed to the Grim. They set off for the cas­tle once more. Slight­ly ashamed of his mo­ment of pan­ic, Har­ry didn’t say any­thing to Ron – nor did he look left or right un­til they had reached the well lit En­trance Hall.

*

Har­ry went down to break­fast next morn­ing with the rest of the boys in his dor­mi­to­ry, all of whom seemed to think the Fire­bolt de­served a sort of guard of hon­our. As Har­ry en­tered the Great Hall, heads turned in the di­rec­tion of the Fire­bolt, and there was a good deal of ex­cit­ed mut­ter­ing. Har­ry saw, with enor­mous sat­is­fac­tion, that the Slytherin team were all look­ing thun­der­struck.

‘Did you see his face?’ said Ron glee­ful­ly, look­ing back at Mal­foy. ‘He can’t be­lieve it! This is bril­liant!’

Wood, too, was bask­ing in the re­flect­ed glo­ry of the Fire­bolt.

‘Put it here, Har­ry,’ he said, lay­ing the broom in the mid­dle of the ta­ble and care­ful­ly turn­ing it so that its name faced up­wards. Peo­ple from the Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff ta­bles were soon com­ing over to look. Cedric Dig­gory came over to con­grat­ulate Har­ry on hav­ing ac­quired such a su­perb re­place­ment for his Nim­bus, and Per­cy’s Raven­claw girl­friend, Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter, asked if she could ac­tu­al­ly hold the Fire­bolt.

‘Now, now, Pen­ny, no sab­otage!’ said Per­cy hearti­ly, as she ex­am­ined the Fire­bolt close­ly. ‘Pene­lope and I have got a bet on,’ he told the team. ‘Ten Galleons on the out­come of the match!’

Pene­lope put the Fire­bolt down again, thanked Har­ry and went back to her ta­ble.

‘Har­ry – make sure you win,’ said Per­cy, in an ur­gent whis­per. ‘I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m com­ing, Pen­ny!’ And he bus­tled off to join her in a piece of toast.

‘Sure you can man­age that broom, Pot­ter?’ said a cold, drawl­ing voice.

Dra­co Mal­foy had ar­rived for a clos­er look, Crabbe and Goyle right be­hind him.

‘Yeah, reck­on so,’ said Har­ry ca­su­al­ly.

‘Got plen­ty of spe­cial fea­tures, hasn’t it?’ said Mal­foy, eyes glit­ter­ing ma­li­cious­ly. ‘Shame it doesn’t come with a parachute – in case you get too near a De­men­tor.’

Crabbe and Goyle snig­gered.

‘Pity you can’t at­tach an ex­tra arm to yours, Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry. ‘Then it could catch the Snitch for you.’

The Gryffind­or team laughed loud­ly. Mal­foy’s pale eyes nar­rowed, and he stalked away. They watched him re­join the rest of the Slytherin team, who put their heads to­geth­er, no doubt ask­ing Mal­foy whether Har­ry’s broom re­al­ly was a Fire­bolt.

At a quar­ter to eleven, the Gryffind­or team set off for the chang­ing rooms. The weath­er couldn’t have been more dif­fer­ent from their match against Huf­flepuff. It was a clear, cool day, with a very light breeze; there would be no vis­ibil­ity prob­lems this time, and Har­ry, though ner­vous, was start­ing to feel the ex­cite­ment on­ly a Quid­ditch match could bring. They could hear the rest of the school mov­ing in­to the sta­di­um be­yond. Har­ry took off his black school robes, re­moved his wand from his pock­et, and stuck it in­side the T-​shirt he was go­ing to wear un­der his Quid­ditch robes. He on­ly hoped he wouldn’t need it. He won­dered sud­den­ly whether Pro­fes­sor Lupin was in the crowd, watch­ing.

‘You know what we’ve got to do,’ said Wood, as they pre­pared to leave the chang­ing rooms. ‘If we lose this match, we’re out of the run­ning. Just – just fly like you did in prac­tice yes­ter­day, and we’ll be OK!’

They walked out on­to the pitch to tu­mul­tuous ap­plause. The Raven­claw team, dressed in blue, were al­ready stand­ing in the mid­dle of the pitch. Their Seek­er, Cho Chang, was the on­ly girl in their team. She was short­er than Har­ry by about a head, and Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing, ner­vous as he was, that she was ex­treme­ly pret­ty. She smiled at Har­ry as the teams faced each oth­er be­hind their cap­tains, and he felt a slight jolt in the re­gion of his stom­ach that he didn’t think had any­thing to do with nerves.

‘Wood, Davies, shake hands,’ Madam Hooch said briskly, and Wood shook hands with the Raven­claw cap­tain.

‘Mount your brooms … on my whis­tle … three – two – one –’

Har­ry kicked off in­to the air and the Fire­bolt zoomed high­er and faster than any oth­er broom; he soared around the sta­di­um and be­gan squint­ing around for the Snitch, lis­ten­ing all the while to the com­men­tary, which was be­ing pro­vid­ed by the Weasley twins’ friend, Lee Jor­dan.

‘They’re off, and the big ex­cite­ment this match is the Fire­bolt which Har­ry Pot­ter is fly­ing for Gryffind­or. Ac­cord­ing to Which Broom­stick, the Fire­bolt’s go­ing to be the broom of choice for the na­tion­al teams at this year’s World Cham­pi­onship –’

‘Jor­dan, would you mind telling us what’s go­ing on in the match?’ in­ter­rupt­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice.

‘Right you are, Pro­fes­sor – just giv­ing a bit of back­ground in­for­ma­tion. The Fire­bolt, in­ci­den­tal­ly, has a built-​in au­to-​brake and –’

‘Jor­dan!’

‘OK, OK, Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, Katie Bell of Gryffind­or head­ing for goal …’

Har­ry streaked past Katie in the op­po­site di­rec­tion, gaz­ing around for a glint of gold and notic­ing that Cho Chang was tail­ing him close­ly. She was un­doubt­ed­ly a very good fli­er – she kept cut­ting across him, forc­ing him to change di­rec­tion.

‘Show her your ac­cel­er­ation, Har­ry!’ Fred yelled, as he whooshed past in pur­suit of a Bludger that was aim­ing for Ali­cia.

Har­ry urged the Fire­bolt for­ward as they round­ed the Raven­claw goal­posts and Cho fell be­hind. Just as Katie suc­ceed­ed in scor­ing the first goal of the match, and the Gryffind­or end of the pitch went wild, he saw it – the Snitch was close to the ground, flit­ting near one of the bar­ri­ers.

Har­ry dived; Cho saw what he was do­ing and tore af­ter him. Har­ry was speed­ing up, ex­cite­ment flood­ing him; dives were his spe­cial­ity. He was ten feet away –

Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Raven­claw Beat­ers, came pelt­ing out of nowhere; Har­ry veered off course, avoid­ing it by an inch, and in those few, cru­cial sec­onds, the Snitch had van­ished.

There was a great ‘Ooooooh’ of dis­ap­point­ment from the Gryffind­or sup­port­ers, but much ap­plause for their Beat­er from the Raven­claw end. George Weasley vent­ed his feel­ings by hit­ting the sec­ond Bludger di­rect­ly at the of­fend­ing Beat­er, who was forced to roll right over in mid-​air to avoid it.

‘Gryffind­or lead by eighty points to ze­ro, and look at that Fire­bolt go! Pot­ter’s re­al­ly putting it through its paces now. See it turn – Chang’s Comet is just no match for it. The Fire­bolt’s pre­ci­sion-​bal­ance is re­al­ly no­tice­able in these long –’

‘JOR­DAN! ARE YOU BE­ING PAID TO AD­VER­TISE FIRE­BOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COM­MEN­TARY!’

Raven­claw were pulling back; they had now scored three goals, which put Gryffind­or on­ly fifty points ahead – if Cho got the Snitch be­fore him, Raven­claw would win. Har­ry dropped low­er, nar­row­ly avoid­ing a Raven­claw Chas­er, scan­ning the pitch fran­ti­cal­ly. A glint of gold, a flut­ter of tiny wings – the Snitch was cir­cling the Gryffind­or goal­post …

Har­ry ac­cel­er­at­ed, eyes fixed on the speck of gold ahead – but next sec­ond, Cho had ap­peared out of thin air, block­ing him –

‘HAR­RY, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GEN­TLE­MAN!’ Wood roared, as Har­ry swerved to avoid a col­li­sion. ‘KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!’

Har­ry turned and caught sight of Cho; she was grin­ning. The Snitch had van­ished again. Har­ry turned his Fire­bolt up­wards and was soon twen­ty feet above the game. Out of the cor­ner of his eye, he saw Cho fol­low­ing him … she’d de­cid­ed to mark him rather than search for the Snitch her­self. Right then … if she want­ed to tail him, she’d have to take the con­se­quences …

He dived again, and Cho, think­ing he’d seen the Snitch, tried to fol­low. Har­ry pulled out of the dive very sharply, she hur­tled down­wards; he rose fast as a bul­let once more, and then saw it, for the third time: the Snitch was glit­ter­ing way above the pitch at the Raven­claw end.

He ac­cel­er­at­ed; so, many feet be­low, did Cho. He was win­ning, gain­ing on the Snitch with ev­ery sec­ond – then –

‘Oh!’ screamed Cho, point­ing.

Dis­tract­ed, Har­ry looked down.

Three De­men­tors, three tall, black, hood­ed De­men­tors, were look­ing up at him.

He didn’t stop to think. Plung­ing a hand down the neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and roared, ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

Some­thing sil­ver white, some­thing enor­mous, erupt­ed from the end of his wand. He knew it had shot di­rect­ly at the De­men­tors but didn’t pause to watch; his mind still mirac­ulous­ly clear, he looked ahead – he was near­ly there. He stretched out the hand still grasp­ing his wand and just man­aged to close his fin­gers over the small, strug­gling Snitch.

Madam Hooch’s whis­tle sound­ed, Har­ry turned around in midair and saw six scar­let blurs bear­ing down on him. Next mo­ment, the whole team were hug­ging him so hard he was near­ly pulled off his broom. Down be­low he could hear the roars of the Gryffind­ors in the crowd.

‘That’s my boy!’ Wood kept yelling. Ali­cia, An­geli­na and Katie had all kissed Har­ry, and Fred had him in a grip so tight Har­ry felt as though his head would come off. In com­plete dis­ar­ray, the team man­aged to make its way back to the ground. Har­ry got off his broom and looked up to see a gag­gle of Gryffind­or sup­port­ers sprint­ing on­to the pitch, Ron in the lead. Be­fore he knew it, he had been en­gulfed by the cheer­ing crowd.

‘Yes!’ Ron yelled, yank­ing Har­ry’s arm in­to the air. ‘Yes! Yes!’

‘Well done, Har­ry!’ said Per­cy, look­ing de­light­ed. ‘Ten Galleons to me! Must find Pene­lope, ex­cuse me –’

‘Good on you, Har­ry!’ roared Sea­mus Finni­gan.

‘Rud­dy bril­liant!’ boomed Ha­grid over the heads of the milling Gryffind­ors.

‘That was quite some Pa­tronus,’ said a voice in Har­ry’s ear.

Har­ry turned around to see Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who looked both shak­en and pleased.

‘The De­men­tors didn’t af­fect me at all!’ Har­ry said ex­cit­ed­ly. ‘I didn’t feel a thing!’

‘That would be be­cause they – er – weren’t De­men­tors,’ said Pro­fes­sor Lupin. ‘Come and see –’

He led Har­ry out of the crowd un­til they were able to see the edge of the pitch.

‘You gave Mr Mal­foy quite a fright,’ said Lupin.

Har­ry stared. Ly­ing in a crum­pled heap on the ground were Mal­foy, Crabbe, Goyle and Mar­cus Flint, the Slytherin team cap­tain, all strug­gling to re­move them­selves from long, black, hood­ed robes. It looked as though Mal­foy had been stand­ing on Goyle’s shoul­ders. Stand­ing over them, with an ex­pres­sion of the ut­most fury on her face, was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

‘An un­wor­thy trick!’ she was shout­ing. ‘A low and cow­ard­ly at­tempt to sab­otage the Gryffind­or Seek­er! De­ten­tion for all of you, and fifty points from Slytherin! I shall be speak­ing to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore about this, make no mis­take! Ah, here he comes now!’

If any­thing could have set the seal on Gryffind­or’s vic­to­ry, it was this. Ron, who had fought his way through to Har­ry’s side, dou­bled up with laugh­ter as they watched Mal­foy fight­ing to ex­tri­cate him­self from the robe, Goyle’s head still stuck in­side it.

‘Come on, Har­ry!’ said George, fight­ing his way over. ‘Par­ty! Gryffind­or com­mon room, now!’

‘Right,’ said Har­ry, and feel­ing hap­pi­er than he had done in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still in their scar­let robes, out of the sta­di­um and back up to the cas­tle.

*

It felt as though they had al­ready won the Quid­ditch Cup; the par­ty went on all day and well in­to the night. Fred and George Weasley dis­ap­peared for a cou­ple of hours and re­turned with arm­fuls of bot­tles of But­ter­beer, pump­kin fizz and sev­er­al bags full of Hon­ey­dukes sweets.

‘How did you do that?’ squealed An­geli­na John­son, as George start­ed throw­ing Pep­per­mint Toads in­to the crowd.

‘With a lit­tle help from Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs,’ Fred mut­tered in Har­ry’s ear.

On­ly one per­son wasn’t join­ing in the fes­tiv­ities. Hermione, in­cred­ibly, was sit­ting in a cor­ner, at­tempt­ing to read an enor­mous book en­ti­tled Home Life and So­cial Habits of British Mug­gles. Har­ry broke away from the ta­ble where Fred and George had start­ed jug­gling But­ter­beer bot­tles, and went over to her.

‘Did you even come to the match?’ he asked her.

‘Of course I did,’ said Hermione, in a strange­ly high-​pitched voice, not look­ing up. ‘And I’m very glad we won, and I think you did re­al­ly well, but I need to read this by Mon­day.’

‘Come on, Hermione, come and have some food,’ Har­ry said, look­ing over at Ron and won­der­ing whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the hatch­et.

‘I can’t, Har­ry, I’ve still got four hun­dred and twen­ty-​two pages to read!’ said Hermione, now sound­ing slight­ly hys­ter­ical.

‘Any­way …’ She glanced over at Ron, too, ‘he doesn’t want me to join in.’

There was no ar­gu­ing with this, as Ron chose that mo­ment to say loud­ly, ‘If Scab­bers hadn’t just been eat­en, he could have had some of these Fudge Flies, he used to re­al­ly like them –’

Hermione burst in­to tears. Be­fore Har­ry could say or do any­thing, she had tucked the enor­mous book un­der her arm, and, still sob­bing, run to­wards the stair­case to the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries and out of sight.

‘Can’t you give her a break?’ Har­ry asked Ron qui­et­ly.

‘No,’ said Ron flat­ly. ‘If she just act­ed like she was sor­ry – but she’ll nev­er ad­mit she’s wrong, Hermione. She’s still act­ing like Scab­bers has gone on hol­iday or some­thing.’

The Gryffind­or par­ty on­ly end­ed when Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned up in her tar­tan dress­ing gown and hair-​net at one in the morn­ing, to in­sist that they all went to bed. Har­ry and Ron climbed the stairs to their dor­mi­to­ry, still dis­cussing the match. At last, ex­haust­ed, Har­ry climbed in­to bed, twitched the hang­ings of his four-​poster shut to block out a ray of moon­light, lay back and felt him­self al­most in­stant­ly drift­ing off to sleep …

He had a very strange dream. He was walk­ing through a for­est, his Fire­bolt over his shoul­der, fol­low­ing some­thing sil­very white. It was wind­ing its way through the trees ahead, and he could on­ly catch glimpses of it be­tween the leaves. Anx­ious to catch up with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his quar­ry. Har­ry broke in­to a run and ahead, he heard hooves gath­er­ing speed. Now he was run­ning flat out, and ahead he could hear gal­lop­ing. Then he turned a cor­ner in­to a clear­ing and –

‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAR­RRRRRRRRRRRGGGH­HH­HH! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!’

Har­ry woke as sud­den­ly as though he’d been hit in the face. Dis­ori­en­tat­ed in the to­tal dark­ness, he fum­bled with his hang­ings – he could hear move­ments around him, and Sea­mus Finni­gan’s voice from the oth­er side of the room.

‘What’s go­ing on?’

Har­ry thought he heard the dor­mi­to­ry door slam. At last find­ing the di­vide in his cur­tains, he ripped them back, and at the same mo­ment, Dean Thomas lit his lamp.

Ron was sit­ting up in bed, the hang­ings torn from one side, a look of the ut­most ter­ror on his face.

‘Black! Sir­ius Black! With a knife!’

‘What?’

‘Here! Just now! Slashed the cur­tains! Woke me up!’

‘You sure you weren’t dream­ing, Ron?’ said Dean.

‘Look at the cur­tains! I tell you, he was here!’

They all scram­bled out of bed; Har­ry reached the dor­mi­to­ry door first, and they sprint­ed back down the stair­case. Doors opened be­hind them, and sleepy voic­es called af­ter them.

‘Who shout­ed?’

‘What’re you do­ing?’

The com­mon room was lit by the glow of the dy­ing fire, still lit­tered with de­bris from the par­ty. It was de­sert­ed.

‘Are you sure you weren’t dream­ing, Ron?’

‘I’m telling you, I saw him!’

‘What’s all the noise?’

‘Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told us to go to bed!’

A few of the girls had come down their stair­case, pulling on dress­ing gowns and yawn­ing. Boys, too, were reap­pear­ing.

‘Ex­cel­lent, are we car­ry­ing on?’ said Fred Weasley bright­ly.

‘Ev­ery­one back up­stairs!’ said Per­cy, hur­ry­ing in­to the com­mon room and pin­ning his Head Boy badge to his py­ja­mas as he spoke.

‘Perce – Sir­ius Black!’ said Ron faint­ly. ‘In our dor­mi­to­ry! With a knife! Woke me up!’

The com­mon room went very still.

‘Non­sense!’ said Per­cy, look­ing star­tled. ‘You had too much to eat, Ron – had a night­mare –’

‘I’m telling you –’

‘Now, re­al­ly, enough’s enough!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was back. She slammed the por­trait be­hind her as she en­tered the com­mon room and stared fu­ri­ous­ly around.

‘I am de­light­ed that Gryffind­or won the match, but this is get­ting ridicu­lous! Per­cy, I ex­pect­ed bet­ter of you!’

‘I cer­tain­ly didn’t au­tho­rise this, Pro­fes­sor!’ said Per­cy, puff­ing him­self up in­dig­nant­ly. ‘I was just telling them all to get back to bed! My broth­er Ron here had a night­mare –’

‘IT WASN’T A NIGHT­MARE!’ Ron yelled. ‘PRO­FES­SOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIR­IUS BLACK WAS STAND­ING OVER ME, HOLD­ING A KNIFE!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared at him. ‘Don’t be ridicu­lous, Weasley, how could he pos­si­bly have got through the por­trait hole?’

‘Ask him!’ said Ron, point­ing a shak­ing fin­ger at the back of Sir Cado­gan’s pic­ture. ‘Ask him if he saw –’

Glar­ing sus­pi­cious­ly at Ron, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pushed the por­trait back open and went out­side. The whole com­mon room lis­tened with bait­ed breath.

‘Sir Cado­gan, did you just let a man en­ter Gryffind­or Tow­er?’

‘Cer­tain­ly good la­dy!’ cried Sir Cado­gan.

There was a stunned si­lence, both in­side and out­side the com­mon room.

‘You – you did?’ said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. ‘But – but the pass­word!’

‘He had ’em!’ said Sir Cado­gan proud­ly. ‘Had the whole week’s, my la­dy! Read ’em off a lit­tle piece of pa­per!’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pulled her­self back through the por­trait hole to face the stunned crowd. She was white as chalk.

‘Which per­son,’ she said, her voice shak­ing, ‘which abysmal­ly fool­ish per­son wrote down this week’s pass­words and left them ly­ing around?’

There was ut­ter si­lence, bro­ken by the small­est of ter­ri­fied squeaks. Neville Long­bot­tom, trem­bling from head to fluffy-​slip­pered toes, raised his hand slow­ly in­to the air.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER FOURTEEN


Snape’s Grudge



No one in Gryffind­or Tow­er slept that night. They knew that the cas­tle was be­ing searched again, and the whole house stayed awake in the com­mon room, wait­ing to hear whether Black had been caught. Pro­fes­sor Mc­Gongall came back at dawn, to tell them that he had again es­caped.

Ev­ery­where they went next day they saw signs of tighter se­cu­ri­ty; Pro­fes­sor Flitwick could be seen teach­ing the front doors to recog­nise a large pic­ture of Sir­ius Black; Filch was sud­den­ly bustling up and down the cor­ri­dors, board­ing up ev­ery­thing from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. Sir Cado­gan had been sacked. His por­trait had been tak­en back to its lone­ly land­ing on the sev­enth floor, and the Fat La­dy was back. She had been ex­pert­ly re­stored, but was still ex­treme­ly ner­vous, and had on­ly agreed to re­turn to her job on con­di­tion that she was giv­en ex­tra pro­tec­tion. A bunch of surly se­cu­ri­ty trolls had been hired to guard her. They paced the cor­ri­dor in a men­ac­ing group, talk­ing in grunts and com­par­ing the size of their clubs.

Har­ry couldn’t help notic­ing that the stat­ue of the one-​eyed witch on the third floor re­mained un­guard­ed and un­blocked. It seemed that Fred and George had been right in think­ing that they – and now Har­ry, Ron and Hermione – were the on­ly ones who knew about the hid­den pas­sage­way with­in it.

‘D’you reck­on we should tell some­one?’ Har­ry asked Ron.

‘We know he’s not com­ing in through Hon­ey­dukes,’ said Ron dis­mis­sive­ly. ‘We’d’ve heard if the shop had been bro­ken in­to.’

Har­ry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-​eyed witch was board­ed up too, he would nev­er be able to go in­to Hogsmeade again.

Ron had be­come an in­stant celebri­ty. For the first time in his life, peo­ple were pay­ing more at­ten­tion to him than to Har­ry, and it was clear that Ron was rather en­joy­ing the ex­pe­ri­ence. Though still severe­ly shak­en by the night’s events, he was hap­py to tell any­one who asked, what had hap­pened, with a wealth of de­tail.

‘ was asleep, and I heard this rip­ping noise, and I thought it was in my dream, you know? But then there was this draught … I woke up and one side of the hang­ings on my bed had been pulled down … I rolled over … and I saw him stand­ing over me … like a skele­ton, with loads of filthy hair … hold­ing this great long knife, must’ve been twelve inch­es … and he looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled, and he scarpered.

‘Why, though?’ Ron added to Har­ry, as the group of sec­ond-​year girls who had been lis­ten­ing to his chill­ing tale de­part­ed. ‘Why did he scarp­er?’

Har­ry had been won­der­ing the same thing. Why had Black, hav­ing got the wrong bed, not si­lenced Ron and pro­ceed­ed to Har­ry? Black had proved twelve years ago that he didn’t mind mur­der­ing in­no­cent peo­ple, and this time he had been fac­ing five un­armed boys, four of whom were asleep.

‘He must’ve known he’d have a job get­ting back out of the cas­tle once you’d yelled and wo­ken peo­ple up,’ said Har­ry thought­ful­ly. ‘He’d’ve had to kill the whole house to get back through the por­trait hole … then he would’ve met the teach­ers …’

Neville was in to­tal dis­grace. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was so fu­ri­ous with him she had banned him from all fu­ture Hogsmeade vis­its, giv­en him a de­ten­tion and for­bid­den any­one to give him the pass­word in­to the Tow­er. Poor Neville was forced to wait out­side the com­mon room ev­ery night for some­body to let him in, while the se­cu­ri­ty trolls leered un­pleas­ant­ly at him. None of these pun­ish­ments, how­ev­er, came close to match­ing the one his grand­moth­er had in store for him. Two days af­ter Black’s break-​in, she sent Neville the very worst thing a Hog­warts stu­dent could re­ceive over break­fast – a Howler.

The school owls swooped in­to the Great Hall, car­ry­ing the post as usu­al, and Neville choked as a huge barn owl land­ed in front of him, a scar­let en­ve­lope clutched in its beak. Har­ry and Ron, who were sit­ting op­po­site him, recog­nised the let­ter as a Howler at once – Ron had got one from his moth­er the year be­fore.

‘Run for it, Neville,’ Ron ad­vised.

Neville didn’t need telling twice. He seized the en­ve­lope and, hold­ing it be­fore him like a bomb, sprint­ed out of the Hall, while the Slytherin ta­ble ex­plod­ed with laugh­ter at the sight of him. They heard the Howler go off in the En­trance Hall – Neville’s grand­moth­er’s voice, mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied to a hun­dred times its usu­al vol­ume, shriek­ing about how he had brought shame on the whole fam­ily.

Har­ry was too busy feel­ing sor­ry for Neville to no­tice im­me­di­ate­ly that he had a let­ter, too. Hed­wig got his at­ten­tion by nip­ping him sharply on the wrist.

‘Ouch! Oh – thanks, Hed­wig …’

Har­ry tore open the en­ve­lope while Hed­wig helped her­self to some of Neville’s corn­flakes. The note in­side said:



Dear Har­ry and Ron,

How about hav­ing tea with me this af­ter­noon round six? I’ll come and col­lect you from the cas­tle. WAIT FOR ME IN THE EN­TRANCE HALL, YOU’RE NOT AL­LOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN.

Cheers,

Ha­grid



‘He prob­ably wants to hear all about Black!’ said Ron.

So at six o’clock that af­ter­noon, Har­ry and Ron left Gryffind­or Tow­er, passed the se­cu­ri­ty trolls at a run, and head­ed down to the En­trance Hall.

Ha­grid was al­ready wait­ing for them.

‘All right, Ha­grid!’ said Ron. ‘S’pose you want to hear about Sat­ur­day night, do you?’

‘I’ve al­ready heard all abou’ it,’ said Ha­grid, open­ing the front doors and lead­ing them out­side.

‘Oh,’ said Ron, look­ing slight­ly put out.

The first thing they saw on en­ter­ing Ha­grid’s cab­in was Buck­beak, who was stretched out on top of Ha­grid’s patch­work quilt, his enor­mous wings fold­ed tight to his body, en­joy­ing a large plate of dead fer­rets. Avert­ing his eyes from this un­pleas­ant sight, Har­ry saw a gi­gan­tic, hairy brown suit and a very hor­ri­ble yel­low and or­ange tie hang­ing from the top of Ha­grid’s wardrobe door.

‘What are they for, Ha­grid?’ said Har­ry.

‘Buck­beak’s case against the Com­mit­tee fer the Dis­pos­al o’ Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures,’ said Ha­grid. ‘This Fri­day. Him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter Lon­don to­geth­er. I’ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus …’

Har­ry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten that Buck­beak’s tri­al was so near, and judg­ing by the un­easy look on Ron’s face, he had, too. They had al­so for­got­ten their promise about help­ing him pre­pare Buck­beak’s de­fence; the ar­rival of the Fire­bolt had driv­en it clean out of their minds.

Ha­grid poured them tea and of­fered them a plate of Bath buns, but they knew bet­ter than to ac­cept; they had had too much ex­pe­ri­ence of Ha­grid’s cook­ing.

‘I got some­thin’ ter dis­cuss with you two,’ said Ha­grid, sit­ting him­self be­tween them and look­ing un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly se­ri­ous.

‘What?’ said Har­ry.

‘Hermione,’ said Ha­grid.

‘What about her?’ said Ron.

‘She’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. She’s bin comin’ down ter vis­it me a lot since Chris’mas. Bin feel­in’ lone­ly. Firs’ yeh weren’ talk­ing to her be­cause o’ the Fire­bolt, now yer not talkin’ to her be­cause her cat –’

‘– ate Scab­bers!’ Ron in­ter­ject­ed an­gri­ly.

‘Be­cause her cat act­ed like all cats do,’ Ha­grid con­tin­ued dogged­ly. ‘She’s cried a fair few times, yeh know. Goin’ through a rough time at the mo­ment. Bit­ten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work she’s tryin’ ter do. Still found time ter help me with Buck­beak’s case, mind … she’s found some re­al­ly good stuff fer me … reck­on he’ll stand a good chance now …’

‘Ha­grid, we should’ve helped as well – sor­ry –’ Har­ry be­gan awk­ward­ly.

‘I’m not blamin’ yeh!’ said Ha­grid, wav­ing Har­ry’s apol­ogy aside. ‘Gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be get­tin’ on with, I’ve seen yeh prac­tisin’ Quid­ditch ev’ry hour o’ the day an’ night – but I got­ta tell yeh, I thought you two’d val­ue yer friend more’n broom­sticks or rats. Tha’s all.’

Har­ry and Ron ex­changed un­com­fort­able looks.

‘Re­al­ly up­set, she was, when Black near­ly stabbed yeh, Ron. She’s got her heart in the right place, Hermione has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her –’

‘If she’d just get rid of that cat, I’d speak to her again!’ Ron said an­gri­ly, ‘but she’s still stick­ing up for it! It’s a ma­ni­ac, and she won’t hear a word against it!’

‘Ah, well, peo­ple can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,’ said Ha­grid wise­ly. Be­hind him, Buck­beak spat a few fer­ret bones on­to Ha­grid’s pil­low.

They spent the rest of their vis­it dis­cussing Gryffind­or’s im­proved chances for the Quid­ditch Cup. At nine o’clock, Ha­grid walked them back up to the cas­tle.

A large group of peo­ple was bunched around the no­tice-​board when they re­turned to the com­mon room.

‘Hogsmeade, next week­end!’ said Ron, cran­ing over the heads to read the new no­tice. ‘What d’you reck­on?’ he added qui­et­ly to Har­ry, as they went to sit down.

‘Well, Filch hasn’t done any­thing about the pas­sage in­to Hon­ey­dukes …’ Har­ry said, even more qui­et­ly.

‘Har­ry!’ said a voice in his right ear. Har­ry start­ed and looked around at Hermione, who was sit­ting at the ta­ble right be­hind them and clear­ing a space in the wall of books that had been hid­ing her.

‘Har­ry if you go in­to Hogsmeade again … I’ll tell Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall about that map!’ said Hermione.

‘Can you hear some­one talk­ing, Har­ry?’ growled Ron, not look­ing at Hermione.

‘Ron, how can you let him go with you? Af­ter what Sir­ius Black near­ly did to you! I mean it, I’ll tell –’

‘So now you’re try­ing to get Har­ry ex­pelled!’ said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘Haven’t you done enough dam­age this year?’

Hermione opened her mouth to re­spond, but with a soft hiss, Crook­shanks leapt on­to her lap. Hermione took one fright­ened look at the ex­pres­sion on Ron’s face, gath­ered Crook­shanks up and hur­ried away to­wards the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries.

‘So how about it?’ Ron said to Har­ry, as though there had been no in­ter­rup­tion. ‘Come on, last time we went you didn’t see any­thing. You haven’t even been in­side Zonko’s yet!’

Har­ry looked around to check that Hermione was well out of earshot.

‘OK,’ he said. ‘But I’m tak­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak this time.’

*

On Sat­ur­day morn­ing, Har­ry packed his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in his bag, slipped the Ma­raud­er’s Map in­to his pock­et and went down to break­fast with ev­ery­one else. Hermione kept shoot­ing sus­pi­cious looks down the ta­ble at him, but he avoid­ed her eye, and was care­ful to let her see him walk­ing back up the mar­ble stair­case in the En­trance Hall as ev­ery­body else pro­ceed­ed to the front doors.

‘Bye!’ Har­ry called to Ron. ‘See you when you get back!’

Ron grinned and winked.

Har­ry hur­ried up to the third floor, slip­ping the Ma­raud­er’s Map out of his pock­et as he went. Crouch­ing be­hind the one-​eyed witch, he smoothed it out. A tiny dot was mov­ing in his di­rec­tion. Har­ry squint­ed at it. The mi­nus­cule writ­ing next to it read ‘Neville Long­bot­tom’.

Har­ry quick­ly pulled out his wand, mut­tered ‘Dis­sendi­um!’ and shoved his bag in­to the stat­ue, but be­fore he could climb in him­self, Neville came around the cor­ner.

‘Har­ry! I for­got you weren’t go­ing to Hogsmeade ei­ther!’

‘Hi, Neville,’ said Har­ry, mov­ing swift­ly away from the stat­ue and push­ing the map back in­to his pock­et. ‘What are you up to?’

‘Noth­ing,’ shrugged Neville. ‘Want a game of Ex­plod­ing Snap?’

‘Er – not now – I was go­ing to go to the li­brary and do that vam­pire es­say for Lupin –’

‘I’ll come with you!’ said Neville bright­ly. ‘I haven’t done it ei­ther!’

‘Er – hang on – yeah, I for­got, I fin­ished it last night!’

‘Bril­liant, you can help me!’ said Neville, his round face anx­ious. ‘I don’t un­der­stand that thing about the gar­lic at all – do they have to eat it, or –’

Neville broke off with a small gasp, look­ing over Har­ry’s shoul­der.

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step be­hind Har­ry.

‘And what are you two do­ing here?’ said Snape, com­ing to a halt and look­ing from one to the oth­er. ‘An odd place to meet –’

To Har­ry’s im­mense dis­qui­et, Snape’s black eyes flicked to the door­ways on ei­ther side of them, and then to the one-​eyed witch.

‘We’re not – meet­ing here,’ said Har­ry. ‘We just – met here.’

‘In­deed?’ said Snape. ‘You have a habit of turn­ing up in un­ex­pect­ed places, Pot­ter, and you are rarely there for no rea­son … I sug­gest the pair of you re­turn to Gryffind­or Tow­er where you be­long.’

Har­ry and Neville set off with­out an­oth­er word. As they turned the cor­ner, Har­ry looked back. Snape was run­ning one of his hands over the one-​eyed witch’s head, ex­am­in­ing it close­ly.

Har­ry man­aged to shake Neville off at the Fat La­dy by telling him the pass­word then pre­tend­ing he’d left his vam­pire es­say in the li­brary and dou­bling back. Once out of sight of the se­cu­ri­ty trolls, he pulled out the map again and held it close to his nose.

The third-​floor cor­ri­dor seemed to be de­sert­ed. Har­ry scanned the map care­ful­ly and saw, with a leap of re­lief, that the tiny dot la­belled ‘Severus Snape’ was now back in its of­fice.

He sprint­ed back to the one-​eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved him­self in­side and slid down to meet his bag at the bot­tom of the stone chute. He wiped the Ma­raud­er’s Map blank again, then set off at a run.

*

Har­ry, com­plete­ly hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, emerged in­to the sun­light out­side Hon­ey­dukes and prod­ded Ron in the back.

‘It’s me,’ he mut­tered.

‘What kept you?’ Ron hissed.

‘Snape was hang­ing around …’

They set off up the High Street.

‘Where are you?’ Ron kept mut­ter­ing out of the cor­ner of his mouth. ‘Are you still there? This feels weird …’

They went to the Post Of­fice; Ron pre­tend­ed to be check­ing the price of an owl to Bill in Egypt so that Har­ry could have a good look around. The owls sat hoot­ing soft­ly down at him, at least three hun­dred of them; from Great Greys right down to tiny lit­tle Scops owls (‘Lo­cal De­liv­er­ies On­ly’) which were so small they could have sat in the palm of Har­ry’s hand.

Then they vis­it­ed Zonko’s, which was so packed with stu­dents Har­ry had to ex­er­cise great care not to tread on any­one and cause a pan­ic. There were jokes and tricks to ful­fil even Fred and George’s wildest dreams; Har­ry gave Ron whis­pered or­ders and passed him some gold from un­der the Cloak. They left Zonko’s with their mon­ey bags con­sid­er­ably lighter than they had been on en­ter­ing, but their pock­ets bulging with Dung­bombs, Hic­cough Sweets, Frog Spawn Soap and a Nose-​Bit­ing Teacup apiece.

The day was fine and breezy, and nei­ther of them felt like stay­ing in­doors, so they walked past the Three Broom­sticks and climbed a slope to vis­it the Shriek­ing Shack, the most haunt­ed dwelling in Britain. It stood a lit­tle way above the rest of the vil­lage, and even in day­light was slight­ly creepy, with its board­ed win­dows and dank over­grown gar­den.

‘Even the Hog­warts ghosts avoid it,’ said Ron, as they leaned on the fence, look­ing up at it. ‘I asked Near­ly Head­less Nick … he says he’s heard a very rough crowd live here. No one can get in. Fred and George tried, ob­vi­ous­ly, but all the en­trances are sealed shut …’

Har­ry, feel­ing hot from their climb, was just con­sid­er­ing tak­ing off the Cloak for a few min­utes, when they heard voic­es near­by. Some­one was climb­ing to­wards the house from the oth­er side of the hill; mo­ments lat­er, Mal­foy had ap­peared, fol­lowed close­ly by Crabbe and Goyle. Mal­foy was speak­ing.

‘… should have an owl from Fa­ther any time now. He had to go to the hear­ing to tell them about my arm … about how I couldn’t use it for three months …’

Crabbe and Goyle snig­gered.

‘I re­al­ly wish I could hear that great hairy mo­ron try­ing to de­fend him­self … ‘There’s no ’arm in ’im , ’on­est –’ … that Hip­pogriff’s as good as dead –’

Mal­foy sud­den­ly caught sight of Ron. His pale face split in a malev­olent grin.

‘What are you do­ing, Weasley?’

Mal­foy looked up at the crum­bling house be­hind Ron.

‘Sup­pose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, Weasley? Dream­ing about hav­ing your own bed­room? I heard your fam­ily all sleep in one room – is that true?’

Har­ry seized the back of Ron’s robes to stop him leap­ing on Mal­foy.

‘Leave him to me,’ he hissed in Ron’s ear.

The op­por­tu­ni­ty was too per­fect to miss. Har­ry crept silent­ly around be­hind Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle, bent down and scooped a large hand­ful of mud out of the path.

‘We were just dis­cussing your friend Ha­grid,’ Mal­foy said to Ron. ‘Just try­ing to imag­ine what he’s say­ing to the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures. D’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his Hip­pogriff’s –’

SPLAT!

Mal­foy’s head jerked for­wards as the mud hit him; his sil­ver-​blond hair was sud­den­ly drip­ping in muck.

‘What the –?’

Ron had to hold on­to the fence to keep him­self stand­ing, he was laugh­ing so hard. Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle spun stupid­ly on the spot, star­ing wild­ly around, Mal­foy try­ing to wipe his hair clean.

‘What was that? Who did that?’

‘Very haunt­ed up here, isn’t it?’ said Ron, with the air of one com­ment­ing on the weath­er.

Crabbe and Goyle were look­ing scared. Their bulging mus­cles were no use against ghosts. Mal­foy was star­ing mad­ly around at the de­sert­ed land­scape.

Har­ry sneaked along the path, where a par­tic­ular­ly slop­py pud­dle yield­ed some foul-​smelling, green sludge.

SPLAT­TER!

Crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle hopped fu­ri­ous­ly on the spot, try­ing to rub it out of his small, dull eyes.

‘It came from over there!’ said Mal­foy, wip­ing his face, and star­ing at a spot some six feet to the left of Har­ry.

Crabbe blun­dered for­wards, his long arms out­stretched like a zom­bie. Har­ry dodged around him, picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Crabbe’s back. Har­ry dou­bled up with silent laugh­ter as Crabbe did a kind of pirou­ette in mid-​air, try­ing to see who had thrown it. As Ron was the on­ly per­son Crabbe could see, it was Ron he start­ed to­wards, but Har­ry stuck out his leg. Crabbe stum­bled – and his huge, flat foot caught the hem of Har­ry’s Cloak. Har­ry felt a great tug, then the Cloak slid off his face.

For a split sec­ond, Mal­foy stared at him.

‘AAARGH!’ he yelled, point­ing at Har­ry’s head. Then he turned tail and ran, at break­neck speed, back down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle be­hind him.

Har­ry tugged the Cloak up again, but the dam­age was done.

‘Har­ry!’ Ron said, stum­bling for­ward and star­ing hope­less­ly at the point where Har­ry had dis­ap­peared, ‘you’d bet­ter run for it! If Mal­foy tells any­one – you’d bet­ter get back to the cas­tle, quick –’

‘See you lat­er,’ said Har­ry, and with­out an­oth­er word, he tore back down the path to­wards Hogsmeade.

Would Mal­foy be­lieve what he had seen? Would any­one be­lieve Mal­foy? No­body knew about the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak – no­body ex­cept Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry’s stom­ach turned over – Dum­ble­dore would know ex­act­ly what had hap­pened, if Mal­foy said any­thing –

Back in­to Hon­ey­dukes, back down the cel­lar steps, across the stone floor, through the trap­door – Har­ry pulled off the Cloak, tucked it un­der his arm, and ran, flat out, along the pas­sage …

Mal­foy would get back first … how long would it take him to find a teach­er? Pant­ing, a sharp pain in his side, Har­ry didn’t slow down un­til he reached the stone slide. He would have to leave the Cloak where it was, it was too much of a give­away if Mal­foy had tipped off a teach­er. He hid it in a shad­owy cor­ner, then start­ed to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty hands slip­ping on the sides of the chute. He reached the in­side of the witch’s hump, tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through and hoist­ed him­self out; the hump closed, and just as Har­ry jumped out from be­hind the stat­ue, he heard quick foot­steps ap­proach­ing.

It was Snape. He ap­proached Har­ry at a swift walk, his black robes swish­ing, then stopped in front of him.

‘So,’ he said.

There was a look of sup­pressed tri­umph about him. Har­ry tried to look in­no­cent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his mud­dy hands, which he quick­ly hid in his pock­ets.

‘Come with me, Pot­ter,’ said Snape.

Har­ry fol­lowed him down­stairs, try­ing to wipe his hands clean on the in­side of his robes with­out Snape notic­ing. They walked down the stairs to the dun­geons and then in­to Snape’s of­fice.

Har­ry had on­ly been in here once be­fore, and he had been in very se­ri­ous trou­ble then, too. Snape had aquired a few more hor­ri­ble slimy things in jars since last time, all stand­ing on shelves be­hind his desk, glint­ing in the fire­light and adding to the threat­en­ing at­mo­sphere.

‘Sit,’ said Snape.

Har­ry sat. Snape, how­ev­er, re­mained stand­ing.

‘Mr Mal­foy has just been to see me with a strange sto­ry, Pot­ter,’ said Snape.

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing.

‘He tells me that he was up by the Shriek­ing Shack when he ran in­to Weasley – ap­par­ent­ly alone.’

Still, Har­ry didn’t speak.

‘Mr Mal­foy states that he was stand­ing talk­ing to Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that could have hap­pened?’

Har­ry tried to look mild­ly sur­prised.

‘I don’t know, Pro­fes­sor.’

Snape’s eyes were bor­ing in­to Har­ry’s. It was ex­act­ly like try­ing to stare out a Hip­pogriff. Har­ry tried hard not to blink.

‘Mr Mal­foy then saw an ex­traor­di­nary ap­pari­tion. Can you imag­ine what it might have been, Pot­ter?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry, now try­ing to sound in­no­cent­ly cu­ri­ous.

‘It was your head, Pot­ter. Float­ing in mid-​air.’

There was a long si­lence.

‘Maybe he’d bet­ter go to Madam Pom­frey,’ said Har­ry. ‘If he’s see­ing things like –’

‘What would your head have been do­ing in Hogsmeade, Pot­ter?’ said Snape soft­ly. ‘Your head is not al­lowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has per­mis­sion to be in Hogsmeade.’

‘I know that,’ said Har­ry, striv­ing to keep his face free of guilt or fear. ‘It sounds like Mal­foy’s hav­ing hal­lu­cin–’

‘Mal­foy is not hav­ing hal­lu­ci­na­tions,’ snarled Snape, and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Har­ry’s chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. ‘If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.’

‘I’ve been up in Gryffind­or Tow­er,’ said Har­ry. ‘Like you told –’

‘Can any­one con­firm that?’

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. Snape’s thin mouth curled in­to a hor­ri­ble smile.

‘So,’ he said, straight­en­ing up again. ‘Ev­ery­one from the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic down­wards has been try­ing to keep fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter safe from Sir­ius Black. But fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter is a law un­to him­self. Let the or­di­nary peo­ple wor­ry about his safe­ty! Fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter goes where he wants to, with no thought for the con­se­quences.’

Har­ry stayed silent. Snape was try­ing to pro­voke him in­to telling the truth. He wasn’t go­ing to do it. Snape had no proof – yet.

‘How ex­traor­di­nar­ily like your fa­ther you are, Pot­ter,’ Snape said sud­den­ly, his eyes glint­ing. ‘He, too, was ex­ceed­ing­ly ar­ro­gant. A small amount of tal­ent on the Quid­ditch pitch made him think he was a cut above the rest of us, too. Strut­ting around the place with his friends and ad­mir­ers … the re­sem­blance be­tween you is un­can­ny.’

‘My dad didn’t strut,’ said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self. ‘And nor do I.’

‘Your fa­ther didn’t set much store by rules, ei­ther,’ Snape went on, press­ing his ad­van­tage, his thin face full of mal­ice. ‘Rules were for less­er mor­tals, not Quid­ditch Cup-​win­ners. His head was so swollen –’

‘SHUT UP!’

Har­ry was sud­den­ly on his feet. Rage such as he had not felt since his last night in Priv­et Drive was thun­der­ing through him. He didn’t care that Snape’s face had gone rigid, the black eyes flash­ing dan­ger­ous­ly.

‘What did you say to me, Pot­ter?’

‘I told you to shut up about my dad!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘I know the truth, all right? He saved your life! Dum­ble­dore told me! You wouldn’t even be here if it weren’t for my dad!’

Snape’s sal­low skin had gone the colour of sour milk.

‘And did the Head­mas­ter tell you the cir­cum­stances in which your fa­ther saved my life?’ he whis­pered. ‘Or did he con­sid­er the de­tails too un­pleas­ant for pre­cious Pot­ter’s del­icate ears?’

Har­ry bit his lip. He didn’t know what had hap­pened and didn’t want to ad­mit it – but Snape seemed to have guessed the truth.

‘I would hate you to run away with a false idea of your fa­ther, Pot­ter,’ he said, a ter­ri­ble grin twist­ing his face. ‘Have you been imag­in­ing some act of glo­ri­ous hero­ism? Then let me cor­rect you – your saint­ly fa­ther and his friends played a high­ly amus­ing joke on me that would have re­sult­ed in my death if your fa­ther hadn’t got cold feet at the last mo­ment. There was noth­ing brave about what he did. He was sav­ing his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke suc­ceed­ed, he would have been ex­pelled from Hog­warts.’

Snape’s un­even, yel­low­ish teeth were bared.

‘Turn out your pock­ets, Pot­ter!’ he spat sud­den­ly.

Har­ry didn’t move. There was a pound­ing in his ears.

‘Turn out your pock­ets, or we go straight to the Head­mas­ter! Pull them out, Pot­ter!’

Cold with dread, Har­ry slow­ly pulled out the bag of Zonko’s tricks and the Ma­raud­er’s Map.

Snape picked up the Zonko’s bag.

‘Ron gave them to me,’ said Har­ry, pray­ing he’d get a chance to tip Ron off be­fore Snape saw him. ‘He – brought them back from Hogsmeade last time –’

‘In­deed? And you’ve been car­ry­ing them round ev­er since? How very touch­ing … and what is this?’

Snape had picked up the map. Har­ry tried with all his might to keep his face im­pas­sive.

‘Spare bit of parch­ment,’ he shrugged.

Snape turned it over, his eyes on Har­ry.

‘Sure­ly you don’t need such a very old piece of parch­ment?’ he said. ‘Why don’t I just – throw this away?’

His hand moved to­wards the fire.

‘No!’ Har­ry said quick­ly.

‘So!’ said Snape, his long nos­trils quiv­er­ing. ‘Is this an­oth­er trea­sured gift from Mr Weasley? Or is it – some­thing else? A let­ter, per­haps, writ­ten in in­vis­ible ink? Or – in­struc­tions to get in­to Hogsmeade with­out pass­ing the De­men­tors?’

Har­ry blinked. Snape’s eyes gleamed.

‘Let me see, let me see …’ he mut­tered, tak­ing out his wand and smooth­ing the map out on his desk. ‘Re­veal your se­cret!’ he said, touch­ing the wand to the parch­ment.

Noth­ing hap­pened. Har­ry clenched his hands to stop them shak­ing.

‘Show your­self!’ Snape said, tap­ping the map sharply.

It stayed blank. Har­ry was tak­ing deep, calm­ing breaths.

‘Pro­fes­sor Severus Snape, mas­ter of this school, com­mands you to yield the in­for­ma­tion you con­ceal!’ Snape said, hit­ting the map with his wand.

As though an in­vis­ible hand was writ­ing up­on it, words ap­peared on the smooth sur­face of the map.

‘Mr Moony presents his com­pli­ments to Pro­fes­sor Snape, and begs him to keep his ab­nor­mal­ly large nose out of oth­er peo­ple’s busi­ness.’

Snape froze. Har­ry stared, dumb­struck, at the mes­sage. But the map didn’t stop there. More writ­ing was ap­pear­ing be­neath the first.

‘Mr Prongs agrees with Mr Moony, and would like to add that Pro­fes­sor Snape is an ug­ly git.’

It would have been very fun­ny if the sit­ua­tion hadn’t been so se­ri­ous. And there was more …

‘Mr Pad­foot would like to reg­is­ter his as­ton­ish­ment that an id­iot like that ev­er be­came a Pro­fes­sor.’

Har­ry closed his eyes in hor­ror. When he’d opened them, the map had had its last word.

‘Mr Worm­tail bids Pro­fes­sor Snape good day, and ad­vis­es him to wash his hair, the slime­ball.’

Har­ry wait­ed for the blow to fall.

‘So …’ said Snape soft­ly. ‘We’ll see about this …’

He strode across to his fire, seized a fist­ful of glit­ter­ing pow­der from a jar on the fire­place, and threw it in­to the flames.

‘Lupin!’ Snape called in­to the fire. ‘I want a word!’

Ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered, Har­ry stared at the fire. A large shape had ap­peared in it, re­volv­ing very fast. Sec­onds lat­er, Pro­fes­sor Lupin was clam­ber­ing out of the fire­place, brush­ing ash off his shab­by robes.

‘You called, Severus?’ said Lupin mild­ly.

‘I cer­tain­ly did,’ said Snape, his face con­tort­ed with fury as he strode back to his desk. ‘I have just asked Pot­ter to emp­ty his pock­ets. He was car­ry­ing this.’

Snape point­ed at the parch­ment, on which the words of Messrs Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs were still shin­ing. An odd, closed ex­pres­sion ap­peared on Lupin’s face.

‘Well?’ said Snape.

Lupin con­tin­ued to stare at the map. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Lupin was do­ing some very quick think­ing.

‘Well?’ said Snape again. ‘This parch­ment is plain­ly full of Dark Mag­ic. This is sup­posed to be your area of ex­per­tise, Lupin. Where do you imag­ine Pot­ter got such a thing?’

Lupin looked up and, by the mer­est half-​glance in Har­ry’s di­rec­tion, warned him not to in­ter­rupt.

‘Full of Dark Mag­ic?’ he re­peat­ed mild­ly. ‘Do you re­al­ly think so, Severus? It looks to me as though it is mere­ly a piece of parch­ment that in­sults any­body who tries to read it. Child­ish, but sure­ly not dan­ger­ous? I imag­ine Har­ry got it from a joke-​shop –’

‘In­deed?’ said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. ‘You think a joke-​shop could sup­ply him with such a thing? You don’t think it more like­ly that he got it di­rect­ly from the man­ufac­tur­ers?’

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand what Snape was talk­ing about. Nor, ap­par­ent­ly, did Lupin.

‘You mean, from Mr Worm­tail or one of these peo­ple?’ he said. ‘Har­ry, do you know any of these men?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry quick­ly.

‘You see, Severus?’ said Lupin, turn­ing back to Snape. ‘It looks like a Zonko prod­uct to me –’

Right on cue, Ron came burst­ing in­to the of­fice. He was com­plete­ly out of breath, and stopped just short of Snape’s desk, clutch­ing the stitch in his chest and try­ing to speak.

‘I – gave – Har­ry – that – stuff,’ he choked. ‘Bought – it – in Zonkos – ages – ago …’

‘Well!’ said Lupin, clap­ping his hands to­geth­er and look­ing around cheer­ful­ly. ‘That seems to clear that up! Severus, I’ll take this back, shall I?’ He fold­ed the map and tucked it in­side his robes. ‘Har­ry, Ron, come with me, I need a word about my vam­pire es­say. Ex­cuse us, Severus.’

Har­ry didn’t dare look at Snape as they left his of­fice. He, Ron and Lupin walked all the way back in­to the En­trance Hall be­fore speak­ing. Then Har­ry turned to Lupin.

‘Pro­fes­sor, I –’

‘I don’t want to hear ex­pla­na­tions,’ said Lupin short­ly. He glanced around the emp­ty En­trance Hall and low­ered his voice. ‘I hap­pen to know that this map was con­fis­cat­ed by Mr Filch many years ago. Yes, I know it’s a map,’ he said, as Har­ry and Ron looked amazed. ‘I don’t want to know how it fell in­to your pos­ses­sion. I am, how­ev­er, as­tound­ed that you didn’t hand it in. Par­tic­ular­ly af­ter what hap­pened the last time a stu­dent left in­for­ma­tion about the cas­tle ly­ing around. And I can’t let you have it back, Har­ry’

Har­ry had ex­pect­ed that, and was too keen for ex­pla­na­tions to protest.

‘Why did Snape think I’d got it from the man­ufac­tur­ers?’

‘Be­cause …’ Lupin hes­itat­ed, ‘be­cause these map­mak­ers would have want­ed to lure you out of school. They’d think it ex­treme­ly en­ter­tain­ing.’

‘Do you know them?’ said Har­ry, im­pressed.

‘We’ve met,’ he said short­ly. He was look­ing at Har­ry more se­ri­ous­ly than ev­er be­fore.

‘Don’t ex­pect me to cov­er up for you again, Har­ry. I can­not make you take Sir­ius Black se­ri­ous­ly. But I would have thought that what you have heard when the De­men­tors draw near you would have had more of an ef­fect on you. Your par­ents gave their lives to keep you alive, Har­ry. A poor way to re­pay them – gam­bling their sac­ri­fice for a bag of mag­ic tricks.’

He walked away, leav­ing Har­ry feel­ing worse by far than he had at any point in Snape’s of­fice. Slow­ly, he and Ron mount­ed the mar­ble stair­case. As Har­ry passed the one-​eyed witch, he re­mem­bered the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak – it was still down there, but he didn’t dare go and get it.

‘It’s my fault,’ said Ron abrupt­ly. ‘I per­suad­ed you to go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done it –’

He broke off; they had reached the cor­ri­dor where the se­cu­ri­ty trolls were pac­ing, and Hermione was walk­ing to­wards them. One look at her face con­vinced Har­ry that she had heard what had hap­pened. His heart plum­met­ed – had she told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall?

‘Come to have a good gloat?’ said Ron sav­age­ly, as she stopped in front of them. ‘Or have you just been to tell on us?’

‘No,’ said Hermione. She was hold­ing a let­ter in her hands and her lip was trem­bling. ‘I just thought you ought to know … Ha­grid lost his case. Buck­beak is go­ing to be ex­ecut­ed.’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER FIFTEEN


The Quid­ditch Fi­nal



‘He – he sent me this,’ Hermione said, hold­ing out the let­ter.

Har­ry took it. The parch­ment was damp, and enor­mous teardrops had smudged the ink so bad­ly in places that it was very dif­fi­cult to read.



Dear Hermione,

We lost. I’m al­lowed to bring him back to Hog­warts. Ex­ecu­tion date to be fixed.

Beaky has en­joyed Lon­don.

I won’t for­get all the help you gave us.

Ha­grid



‘They can’t do this,’ said Har­ry. ‘They can’t. Buck­beak isn’t dan­ger­ous.’

‘Mal­foy’s dad’s fright­ened the Com­mit­tee in­to it,’ said Hermione, wip­ing her eyes. ‘You know what he’s like. They’re a bunch of dod­dery old fools, and they were scared. There’ll be an ap­peal, though, there al­ways is. On­ly I can’t see any hope … noth­ing will have changed.’

‘Yeah, it will,’ said Ron fierce­ly. ‘You won’t have to do all the work alone this time, Hermione. I’ll help.’

‘Oh, Ron!’

Hermione flung her arms around Ron’s neck and broke down com­plete­ly. Ron, look­ing quite ter­ri­fied, pat­ted her very awk­ward­ly on the top of the head. Fi­nal­ly, Hermione drew away.

‘Ron, I’m re­al­ly, re­al­ly sor­ry about Scab­bers …’ she sobbed.

‘Oh – well – he was old,’ said Ron, look­ing thor­ough­ly re­lieved that she had let go of him. ‘And he was a bit use­less. You nev­er know, Mum and Dad might get me an owl now.’

The safe­ty mea­sures im­posed on the stu­dents since Black’s sec­ond break-​in made it im­pos­si­ble for Har­ry, Ron and Hermione to go and vis­it Ha­grid in the evenings. Their on­ly chance of talk­ing to him was dur­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons.

He seemed numb with shock at the ver­dict.

‘’S’all my fault. Got all tongue-​tied. They was all sit­tin’ there in black robes an’ I kep’ drop­pin’ me notes and for­get­tin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, Hermione. An’ then Lu­cius Mal­foy stood up an’ said his bit, and the Com­mit­tee jus’ did ex­ac’ly what he told’em …’

‘There’s still the ap­peal!’ said Ron fierce­ly. ‘Don’t give up yet, we’re work­ing on it!’

They were walk­ing back up to the cas­tle with the rest of the class. Ahead they could see Mal­foy, who was walk­ing with Crabbe and Goyle, and kept look­ing back, laugh­ing de­ri­sive­ly.

‘’S’no good, Ron,’ said Ha­grid sad­ly as they reached the cas­tle steps. ‘That Com­mit­tee’s in Lu­cius Mal­foy’s pock­et. I’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Beaky’s time is the hap­pi­est he’s ev­er had. I owe him that …’

Ha­grid turned round and hur­ried back to­wards his cab­in, his face buried in his hand­ker­chief.

‘Look at him blub­ber!’

Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle had been stand­ing just in­side the cas­tle doors, lis­ten­ing.

‘Have you ev­er seen any­thing quite as pa­thet­ic?’ said Mal­foy. ‘And he’s sup­posed to be our teach­er!’

Har­ry and Ron both made fu­ri­ous moves to­wards Mal­foy, but Hermione got there first – SMACK!

She had slapped Mal­foy around the face with all the strength she could muster. Mal­foy stag­gered. Har­ry, Ron, Crabbe and Goyle stood flab­ber­gast­ed as Hermione raised her hand again.

‘Don’t you dare call Ha­grid pa­thet­ic, you foul – you evil –’

‘Hermione!’ said Ron weak­ly, and he tried to grab her hand as she swung it back.

‘Get off, Ron!’

Hermione pulled out her wand. Mal­foy stepped back­wards. Crabbe and Goyle looked at him for in­struc­tions, thor­ough­ly be­wil­dered.

‘C’mon,’ Mal­foy mut­tered, and next mo­ment, all three of them had dis­ap­peared in­to the pas­sage­way to the dun­geons.

‘Hermione!’ Ron said again, sound­ing both stunned and im­pressed.

‘Har­ry, you’d bet­ter beat him in the Quid­ditch Fi­nal!’ Hermione said shril­ly. ‘You just bet­ter had, be­cause I can’t stand it if Slytherin win!’

‘We’re due in Charms,’ said Ron, still gog­gling at Hermione. ‘We’d bet­ter go.’

They hur­ried up the mar­ble stair­case to­wards Pro­fes­sor Flitwick’s class­room.

‘You’re late, boys!’ said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick re­prov­ing­ly, as Har­ry opened the class­room door. ‘Come along, quick­ly, wands out, we’re ex­per­iment­ing with Cheer­ing Charms to­day. We’ve al­ready di­vid­ed in­to pairs –’

Har­ry and Ron hur­ried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ron looked be­hind him.

‘Where’s Hermione gone?’

Har­ry looked around, too. Hermione hadn’t en­tered the class­room, yet Har­ry knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door.

‘That’s weird,’ said Har­ry, star­ing at Ron. ‘Maybe – maybe she went to the bath­room or some­thing?’

But Hermione didn’t turn up all les­son.

‘She could’ve done with a Cheer­ing Charm on her, too,’ said Ron, as the class left for lunch, all grin­ning broad­ly – the Cheer­ing Charms had left them with a feel­ing of great con­tent­ment.

Hermione wasn’t at lunch ei­ther. By the time they had fin­ished their ap­ple pie, the af­ter-​ef­fects of the Cheer­ing Charms were wear­ing off, and Har­ry and Ron had start­ed to get slight­ly wor­ried.

‘You don’t think Mal­foy did some­thing to her?’ Ron said anx­ious­ly, as they hur­ried up­stairs to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er.

They passed the se­cu­ri­ty trolls, gave the Fat La­dy the pass­word (‘Flib­ber­ti­gib­bet’) and scram­bled through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room.

Hermione was sit­ting at a ta­ble, fast asleep, her head rest­ing on an open Arith­man­cy book. They went to sit down ei­ther side of her. Har­ry prod­ded her awake.

‘Wh-​what?’ said Hermione, wak­ing with a start, and star­ing wild­ly around. ‘Is it time to go? W-​which les­son have we got now?’

‘Div­ina­tion, but it’s not for an­oth­er twen­ty min­utes,’ said Har­ry. ‘Hermione, why didn’t you come to Charms?’

‘What? Oh no!’ Hermione squeaked. ‘I for­got to go to Charms!’

‘But how could you for­get?’ said Har­ry. ‘You were with us till we were right out­side the class­room!’

‘I don’t be­lieve it!’ Hermione wailed. ‘Was Pro­fes­sor Flitwick an­gry? Oh, it was Mal­foy, I was think­ing about him and I lost track of things!’

‘You know what, Hermione?’ said Ron, look­ing down at the enor­mous Arith­man­cy book Hermione had been us­ing as a pil­low. ‘I reck­on you’re crack­ing up. You’re try­ing to do too much.’

‘No, I’m not!’ said Hermione, brush­ing her hair out of her eyes and star­ing hope­less­ly around for her bag. ‘I just made a mis­take, that’s all! I’d bet­ter go and see Pro­fes­sor Flitwick and say sor­ry … I’ll see you in Div­ina­tion!’

Hermione joined them at the foot of the lad­der to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s class­room twen­ty min­utes lat­er, look­ing ex­treme­ly ha­rassed.

‘I can’t be­lieve I missed Cheer­ing Charms! And I bet they come up in our ex­ams. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick hint­ed they might!’

To­geth­er they climbed the lad­der in­to the dim, sti­fling tow­er room. Glow­ing on ev­ery lit­tle ta­ble was a crys­tal ball full of pearly white mist. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat down to­geth­er at the same rick­ety ta­ble.

‘I thought we weren’t start­ing crys­tal balls un­til next term,’ Ron mut­tered, cast­ing a wary eye around for Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in case she was lurk­ing near­by.

‘Don’t com­plain, this means we’ve fin­ished palm­istry,’ Har­ry mut­tered back. ‘I was get­ting sick of her flinch­ing ev­ery time she looked at my hands.’

‘Good day to you!’ said the fa­mil­iar, misty voice, and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney made her usu­al dra­mat­ic en­trance out of the shad­ows. Par­vati and Laven­der quiv­ered with ex­cite­ment, their faces lit by the milky glow of their crys­tal ball.

‘I have de­cid­ed to in­tro­duce the crys­tal ball a lit­tle ear­li­er than I had planned,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, seat­ing her­self with her back to the fire and gaz­ing around. ‘The fates have in­formed me that your ex­am­ina­tion in June will con­cern the Orb, and I am anx­ious to give you suf­fi­cient prac­tice.’

Hermione snort­ed. ‘Well, hon­est­ly … ‘the fates have in­formed her’ … who sets the ex­am? She does! What an amaz­ing pre­dic­tion!’ she said, not trou­bling to keep her voice low.

It was hard to tell whether Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had heard them, as her face was hid­den in shad­ow. She con­tin­ued, how­ev­er, as though she had not.

‘Crys­tal-​gaz­ing is a par­tic­ular­ly re­fined art,’ she said dream­ily. ‘I do not ex­pect any of you to See when first you peer in­to the Orb’s in­fi­nite depths. We shall start by prac­tis­ing re­lax­ing the con­scious mind and ex­ter­nal eyes’ – Ron be­gan to snig­ger un­con­trol­lably, and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to sti­fle the noise – ‘so as to clear the In­ner Eye and the su­per­con­scious. Per­haps, if we are lucky, some of you will See be­fore the end of the class.’

And so they be­gan. Har­ry, at least, felt ex­treme­ly fool­ish, star­ing blankly at the crys­tal ball, try­ing to keep his mind emp­ty when thoughts such as ‘this is stupid’ kept drift­ing across it. It didn’t help that Ron kept break­ing in­to silent gig­gles and Hermione kept tut­ting.

‘Seen any­thing yet?’ Har­ry asked them, af­ter a quar­ter of an hour’s qui­et crys­tal-​gaz­ing.

‘Yeah, there’s a burn on this ta­ble,’ said Ron, point­ing. ‘Some­one’s spilled their can­dle.’

‘This is such a waste of time,’ Hermione hissed. ‘I could be prac­tis­ing some­thing use­ful. I could be catch­ing up on Cheer­ing Charms –’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney rus­tled past.

‘Would any­one like me to help them in­ter­pret the shad­owy por­tents with­in their Orb?’ she mur­mured over the clink­ing of her ban­gles.

‘I don’t need help,’ Ron whis­pered. ‘It’s ob­vi­ous what this means. There’s go­ing to be loads of fog tonight.’

Both Har­ry and Hermione burst out laugh­ing.

‘Now, re­al­ly!’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, as ev­ery­one’s heads turned in their di­rec­tion. Par­vati and Laven­der were look­ing scan­dalised. ‘You are dis­turb­ing the clair­voy­ant vi­bra­tions!’ She ap­proached their ta­ble and peered in­to their crys­tal ball. Har­ry felt his heart sink­ing. He was sure he knew what was com­ing …

‘There is some­thing here!’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney whis­pered, low­er­ing her face to the ball, so that it was re­flect­ed twice in her huge glass­es. ‘Some­thing mov­ing … but what is it?’

Har­ry was pre­pared to bet ev­ery­thing he owned, in­clud­ing his Fire­bolt, that it wasn’t good news, what­ev­er it was. And sure enough …

‘My dear …’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney breathed, gaz­ing up at Har­ry. ‘It is here, plain­er than ev­er be­fore … my dear, stalk­ing to­wards you, grow­ing ev­er clos­er … the Gr –’

‘Oh, for good­ness’ sake!’ said Hermione, loud­ly. ‘Not that ridicu­lous Grim again!’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney raised her enor­mous eyes to Hermione’s face. Par­vati whis­pered some­thing to Laven­der, and they both glared at Hermione, too. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stood up, sur­vey­ing Hermione with un­mis­take­able anger.

‘I am sor­ry to say that from the mo­ment you have ar­rived in this class, my dear, it has been ap­par­ent that you do not have what the no­ble art of Div­ina­tion re­quires. In­deed, I don’t re­mem­ber ev­er meet­ing a stu­dent whose mind was so hope­less­ly Mun­dane.’

There was a mo­ment’s si­lence. Then –

‘Fine!’ said Hermione sud­den­ly, get­ting up and cram­ming Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture back in­to her bag. ‘Fine!’ she re­peat­ed, swing­ing the bag over her shoul­der and al­most knock­ing Ron off his chair. ‘I give up! I’m leav­ing!’

And to the whole class’s amaze­ment, Hermione strode over to the trap­door, kicked it open, and climbed down the lad­der out of sight.

It took a few min­utes for the class to set­tle down again. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed to have for­got­ten all about the Grim. She turned abrupt­ly from Har­ry and Ron’s ta­ble, breath­ing rather heav­ily as she tugged her gauzy shawl more close­ly to her.

‘Ooooo!’ said Laven­der sud­den­ly, mak­ing ev­ery­one start. ‘Oooooo, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, I’ve just re­mem­bered! You saw her leav­ing, didn’t you? Didn’t you, Pro­fes­sor? ‘Around East­er, one of our num­ber will leave us for ev­er!’ You said it ages ago, Pro­fes­sor!’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile.

‘Yes, my dear, I did in­deed know that Miss Granger would be leav­ing us. One hopes, how­ev­er, that one might have mis­tak­en the Signs … the In­ner Eye can be a bur­den, you know …’

Laven­der and Par­vati looked deeply im­pressed, and moved over so that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney could join their ta­ble in­stead.

‘Some day Hermione’s hav­ing, eh?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, look­ing awed.

‘Yeah …’

Har­ry glanced in­to the crys­tal ball, but saw noth­ing but swirling white mist. Had Pro­fes­sor Trelawney re­al­ly seen the Grim again? Would he? The last thing he need­ed was an­oth­er near-​fa­tal ac­ci­dent, with the Quid­ditch fi­nal draw­ing ev­er near­er.

*

The East­er hol­idays were not ex­act­ly re­lax­ing. The third-​years had nev­er had so much home­work. Neville Long­bot­tom seemed close to a ner­vous col­lapse, and he wasn’t the on­ly one.

‘Call this a hol­iday!’ Sea­mus Finni­gan roared at the com­mon room one af­ter­noon. ‘The ex­ams are ages away, what’re they play­ing at?’

But no­body had as much to do as Hermione. Even with­out Div­ina­tion, she was tak­ing more sub­jects than any­body else. She was usu­al­ly last to leave the com­mon room at night, first to ar­rive at the li­brary next morn­ing; she had shad­ows like Lupin’s un­der her eyes, and seemed con­stant­ly close to tears.

Ron had tak­en over re­spon­si­bil­ity for Buck­beak’s ap­peal. When he wasn’t do­ing his own work, he was por­ing over enor­mous­ly thick vol­umes with names like The Hand­book of Hip­pogriff Psy­chol­ogy and Fowl or Foul? A Study of Hip­pogriff Bru­tal­ity. He was so ab­sorbed, he even for­got to be hor­ri­ble to Crook­shanks.

Har­ry, mean­while, had to fit in his home­work around Quid­ditch prac­tice ev­ery day, not to men­tion end­less dis­cus­sions of tac­tics with Wood. The Gryffind­or-​Slytherin match would take place on the first Sat­ur­day af­ter the East­er hol­idays. Slytherin were lead­ing the tour­na­ment by ex­act­ly two hun­dred points. This meant (as Wood con­stant­ly re­mind­ed his team) that they need­ed to win the match by more than that amount to win the Cup. It al­so meant that the bur­den of win­ning fell large­ly on Har­ry, be­cause cap­tur­ing the Snitch was worth one hun­dred and fifty points.

‘So you must on­ly catch it if we’re more than fifty points up,’ Wood told Har­ry con­stant­ly. ‘On­ly if we’re more than fifty points up, Har­ry, or we win the match but lose the Cup. You’ve got that, haven’t you? You must on­ly catch the Snitch if we’re –’

‘I KNOW, OLIV­ER!’ Har­ry yelled.

The whole of Gryffind­or house was ob­sessed with the com­ing match. Gryffind­or hadn’t won the Quid­ditch Cup since the leg­endary Char­lie Weasley (Ron’s sec­ond-​old­est broth­er) had been Seek­er. But Har­ry doubt­ed whether any of them, even Wood, want­ed to win as much as he did. The en­mi­ty be­tween Har­ry and Mal­foy was at its high­est point ev­er. Mal­foy was still smart­ing about the mud-​throw­ing in­ci­dent in Hogsmeade, and even more fu­ri­ous that Har­ry had some­how wormed his way out of pun­ish­ment. Har­ry hadn’t for­got­ten Mal­foy’s at­tempt to sab­otage him in the match against Raven­claw, but it was the mat­ter of Buck­beak that made him most de­ter­mined to beat Mal­foy in front of the en­tire school.

Nev­er, in any­one’s mem­ory, had a match ap­proached in such a high­ly charged at­mo­sphere. By the time the hol­idays were over, ten­sion be­tween the two teams and their hous­es was at break­ing-​point. A num­ber of small scuf­fles broke out in the cor­ri­dors, cul­mi­nat­ing in a nasty in­ci­dent in which a Gryffind­or fourth-​year and a Slytherin sixth-​year end­ed up in the hos­pi­tal wing with leeks sprout­ing out of their ears.

Har­ry was hav­ing a par­tic­ular­ly bad time of it. He couldn’t walk to class with­out Slytherins stick­ing out their legs and try­ing to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle kept pop­ping up wher­ev­er he went, and slouch­ing away look­ing dis­ap­point­ed when they saw him sur­round­ed by peo­ple. Wood had giv­en in­struc­tions that Har­ry should be ac­com­pa­nied ev­ery­where, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of ac­tion. The whole of Gryffind­or house took up the chal­lenge en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, so that it was im­pos­si­ble for Har­ry to get to class­es on time be­cause he was sur­round­ed by a vast, chat­ter­ing crowd. Har­ry was more con­cerned for his Fire­bolt’s safe­ty than his own. When he wasn’t fly­ing it, he locked it se­cure­ly in his trunk, and fre­quent­ly dashed back up to Gryffind­or Tow­er at break-​times to check that it was still there.

*

All usu­al pur­suits were aban­doned in the Gryffind­or com­mon room the night be­fore the match. Even Hermione had put down her books.

‘I can’t work, I can’t con­cen­trate,’ she said ner­vous­ly.

There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George Weasley were deal­ing with the pres­sure by be­ing loud­er and more ex­uber­ant than ev­er. Oliv­er Wood was crouched over a mod­el of a Quid­ditch pitch in the cor­ner, prod­ding lit­tle fig­ures across it with his wand and mut­ter­ing to him­self. An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie were laugh­ing at Fred and George’s jokes. Har­ry was sit­ting with Ron and Hermione, re­moved from the cen­tre of things, try­ing not to think about the next day, be­cause ev­ery time he did, he had the hor­ri­ble sen­sa­tion that some­thing very large was fight­ing to get out of his stom­ach.

‘You’re go­ing to be fine,’ Hermione told him, though she looked pos­itive­ly ter­ri­fied.

‘You’ve got a Fire­bolt!’ said Ron.

‘Yeah …’ said Har­ry, his stom­ach writhing.

It came as a re­lief when Wood sud­den­ly stood up and yelled, ‘Team! Bed!’

*

Har­ry slept bad­ly. First he dreamed that he had over­slept, and that Wood was yelling, ‘Where were you? We had to use Neville in­stead!’ Then he dreamed that Mal­foy and the rest of the Slytherin team ar­rived for the match rid­ing drag­ons. He was fly­ing at break­neck speed, try­ing to avoid a spurt of flames from Mal­foy’s steed’s mouth, when he re­alised he had for­got­ten his Fire­bolt. He fell through the air and woke with a start.

It was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry re­mem­bered that the match hadn’t tak­en place yet, that he was safe in bed and that the Slytherin team def­inite­ly wouldn’t be al­lowed to play on drag­ons. He was feel­ing very thirsty. As qui­et­ly as he could, he got out of his four-​poster and went to pour him­self some wa­ter from the sil­ver jug be­neath the win­dow.

The grounds were still and qui­et. No breath of wind dis­turbed the tree­tops in the For­bid­den For­est; the Whomp­ing Wil­low was mo­tion­less and in­no­cent-​look­ing. It looked as though con­di­tions for the match would be per­fect.

Har­ry set down his gob­let and was about to turn back to his bed when some­thing caught his eye. An an­imal of some kind was prowl­ing across the sil­very lawn.

Har­ry dashed to his bed­side ta­ble, snatched up his glass­es and put them on, then hur­ried back to the win­dow. It couldn’t be the Grim – not now – not right be­fore the match –

He peered out at the grounds again and, af­ter a minute’s fran­tic search­ing, spot­ted it. It was skirt­ing the edge of the For­est now … it wasn’t the Grim at all … it was a cat … Har­ry clutched the win­dow-​ledge in re­lief as he recog­nised the bot­tle-​brush tail. It was on­ly Crook­shanks …

Or was it on­ly Crook­shanks? Har­ry squint­ed, press­ing his nose flat against the glass. Crook­shanks seemed to have come to a halt. Har­ry was sure he could see some­thing else mov­ing in the shad­ow of the trees, too.

And next mo­ment, it had emerged: a gi­gan­tic, shag­gy black dog, mov­ing stealthi­ly across the lawn, Crook­shanks trot­ting at its side. Har­ry stared. What did this mean? If Crook­shanks could see the dog as well, how could it be an omen of Har­ry’s death?

‘Ron!’ Har­ry hissed. ‘Ron! Wake up!’

‘Huh?’

‘I need you to tell me if you can see some­thing!’

‘’S’all dark, Har­ry’ Ron mut­tered thick­ly. ‘What’re you on about?’

‘Down here –’

Har­ry looked quick­ly back out of the win­dow.

Crook­shanks and the dog had van­ished. Har­ry climbed on­to the win­dow-​sill to look right down in­to the shad­ows of the cas­tle, but they weren’t there. Where had they gone?

A loud snore told him Ron had fall­en asleep again.

*

Har­ry and the rest of the Gryffind­or team en­tered the Great Hall next day to enor­mous ap­plause. Har­ry couldn’t help grin­ning broad­ly as he saw that both the Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff ta­bles were clap­ping them, too. The Slytherin ta­ble hissed loud­ly as they passed. Har­ry no­ticed that Mal­foy looked even paler than usu­al.

Wood spent the whole of break­fast urg­ing his team to eat, while touch­ing noth­ing him­self. Then he hur­ried them off to the pitch be­fore any­one else had fin­ished, so they could get an idea of the con­di­tions. As they left the Great Hall, ev­ery­one ap­plaud­ed again.

‘Good luck, Har­ry!’ called Cho Chang. Har­ry felt him­self blush­ing.

‘OK … no wind to speak of … sun’s a bit bright, that could im­pair your vi­sion, watch out for it … ground’s fair­ly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kick-​off …’

Wood paced the pitch, star­ing around with the team be­hind him. Fi­nal­ly they saw the front doors of the cas­tle open in the dis­tance, and the rest of the school spill on­to the lawn.

‘Chang­ing rooms,’ said Wood terse­ly.

None of them spoke as they changed in­to their scar­let robes. Har­ry won­dered if they were feel­ing like he was: as though he’d eat­en some­thing ex­treme­ly wrig­gly for break­fast. In what seemed like no time at all, Wood was say­ing, ‘OK, it’s time, let’s go …’

They walked out on­to the pitch to a tidal wave of noise. Three-​quar­ters of the crowd were wear­ing scar­let rosettes, wav­ing scar­let flags with the Gryffind­or li­on up­on them or bran­dish­ing ban­ners with slo­gans such as ‘GO GRYFFIND­OR!’ and ‘LI­ONS FOR THE CUP!’. Be­hind the Slytherin goal­posts, how­ev­er, two hun­dred peo­ple were wear­ing green; the sil­ver ser­pent of Slytherin glit­tered on their flags, and Pro­fes­sor Snape sat in the very front row, wear­ing green like ev­ery­one else, and a very grim smile.

‘And here are the Gryffind­ors!’ yelled Lee Jor­dan, who was act­ing as com­men­ta­tor as usu­al. ‘Pot­ter, Bell, John­son, Spin­net, Weasley, Weasley and Wood. Wide­ly ac­knowl­edged as the best side Hog­warts has seen in a good few years –’

Lee’s com­ments were drowned by a tide of ‘boos’ from the Slytherin end.

‘And here come the Slytherin team, led by cap­tain Flint. He’s made some changes in the line-​up and seems to be go­ing for size rather than skill –’

More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Har­ry, how­ev­er, thought Lee had a point. Mal­foy was eas­ily the small­est per­son on the Slytherin team; the rest of them were enor­mous.

‘Cap­tains, shake hands!’ said Madam Hooch.

Flint and Wood ap­proached each oth­er and grasped each oth­er’s hands very tight­ly; it looked as though each was try­ing to break the oth­er’s fin­gers.

‘Mount your brooms!’ said Madam Hooch. ‘Three … two … one …’

The sound of her whis­tle was lost in the roar from the crowd as four­teen brooms rose in­to the air. Har­ry felt his hair fly back off his fore­head; his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw Mal­foy on his tail, and sped off in search of the Snitch.

‘And it’s Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, Ali­cia Spin­net of Gryffind­or with the Quaf­fle, head­ing straight for the Slytherin goal­posts, look­ing good, Ali­cia! Argh, no – Quaf­fle in­ter­cept­ed by War­ring­ton, War­ring­ton of Slytherin tear­ing up the pitch – WHAM! – nice Bludger work there by George Weasley, War­ring­ton drops the Quaf­fle, it’s caught by – John­son, Gryffind­or back in pos­ses­sion, come on, An­geli­na – nice swerve round Mon­tague – duck, An­geli­na, that’s a Bludger! – SHE SCORES! TEN–ZE­RO TO GRYFFIND­OR!’

An­geli­na punched the air as she soared round the end of the pitch; the sea of scar­let be­low was scream­ing its de­light –

‘OUCH!’

An­geli­na was near­ly thrown from her broom as Mar­cus Flint went smash­ing in­to her.

‘Sor­ry!’ said Flint, as the crowd be­low booed. ‘Sor­ry didn’t see her!’

Next mo­ment, Fred Weasley had chucked his Beat­er’s club at the back of Flint’s head. Flint’s nose smashed in­to the han­dle of his broom and be­gan to bleed.

‘That will do!’ shrieked Madam Hooch, zoom­ing be­tween them. ‘Penal­ty to Gryffind­or for an un­pro­voked at­tack on their Chas­er! Penal­ty to Slytherin for de­lib­er­ate dam­age to their Chas­er!’

‘Come off it, Miss!’ howled Fred, but Madam Hooch blew her whis­tle and Ali­cia flew for­ward to take the penal­ty.

‘Come on, Ali­cia!’ yelled Lee in­to the si­lence that had de­scend­ed on the crowd. ‘YES! SHE’S BEAT­EN THE KEEP­ER! TWEN­TY–ZE­RO TO GRYFFIND­OR!’

Har­ry turned the Fire­bolt sharply to watch Flint, still bleed­ing freely, fly for­wards to take the Slytherin penal­ty. Wood was hov­er­ing in front of the Gryffind­or goal­posts, his jaw clenched.

‘Course, Wood’s a su­perb Keep­er!’ Lee Jor­dan told the crowd, as Flint wait­ed for Madam Hooch’s whis­tle. ‘Su­perb! Very dif­fi­cult to pass – very dif­fi­cult in­deed – YES! I DON’T BE­LIEVE IT! HE’S SAVED IT!’

Re­lieved, Har­ry zoomed away, gaz­ing around for the Snitch, but still mak­ing sure he caught ev­ery word of Lee’s com­men­tary. It was es­sen­tial that he hold Mal­foy off the Snitch un­til Gryffind­or was more than fifty points up …

‘Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion, no, Slytherin in pos­ses­sion – no! – Gryffind­or back in pos­ses­sion and it’s Katie Bell, Katie Bell for Gryffind­or with the Quaf­fle, she’s streak­ing up the pitch – THAT WAS DE­LIB­ER­ATE!’

Mon­tague, a Slytherin Chas­er, had swerved in front of Katie, and in­stead of seiz­ing the Quaf­fle, had grabbed her head. Katie cartwheeled in the air, man­aged to stay on her broom but dropped the Quaf­fle.

Madam Hooch’s whis­tle rang out again as she soared over to Mon­tague and be­gan shout­ing at him. A minute lat­er, Katie had put an­oth­er penal­ty past the Slytherin Keep­er.

‘THIR­TY–ZE­RO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEAT­ING –’

‘Jor­dan, if you can’t com­men­tate in an un­bi­ased way –!’

‘I’m telling it like it is, Pro­fes­sor!’

Har­ry felt a huge jolt of ex­cite­ment. He had seen the Snitch – it was shim­mer­ing at the foot of one of the Gryffind­or goal­posts – but he mustn’t catch it yet. And if Mal­foy saw it …

Fak­ing a look of sud­den con­cen­tra­tion, Har­ry pulled his Fire­bolt round and sped off to­wards the Slytherin end. It worked. Mal­foy went har­ing af­ter him, clear­ly think­ing Har­ry had seen the Snitch there …

WHOOSH.

One of the Bludgers came streak­ing past Har­ry’s right ear, hit by the gi­gan­tic Slytherin Beat­er, Der­rick. Next mo­ment –

WHOOSH.

The sec­ond Bludger had grazed Har­ry’s el­bow. The oth­er Beat­er, Bole, was clos­ing in.

Har­ry had a fleet­ing glimpse of Bole and Der­rick zoom­ing to­wards him, clubs raised –

He turned the Fire­bolt up­wards at the last sec­ond, and Bole and Der­rick col­lid­ed with a sick­en­ing crunch.

‘Ha haaa!’ yelled Lee Jor­dan, as the Slytherin Beat­ers lurched away from each oth­er, clutch­ing their heads. ‘Too bad, boys! You’ll need to get up ear­li­er than that to beat a Fire­bolt! And it’s Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion again, as John­son takes the Quaf­fle – Flint along­side her – poke him in the eye, An­geli­na! – it was a joke, Pro­fes­sor, it was a joke – oh, no – Flint in pos­ses­sion, Flint fly­ing to­wards the Gryffind­or goal­posts, come on, now, Wood, save –!’

But Flint had scored; there was an erup­tion of cheers from the Slytherin end and Lee swore so bad­ly that Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tried to tug the mag­ical mega­phone away from him.

‘Sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor, sor­ry! Won’t hap­pen again! So, Gryffind­or in the lead, thir­ty points to ten, and Gryffind­or in pos­ses­sion –’

It was turn­ing in­to the dirt­iest match Har­ry had ev­er played in. En­raged that Gryffind­or had tak­en such an ear­ly lead, the Slytherins were rapid­ly re­sort­ing to any means to take the Quaf­fle. Bole hit Ali­cia with his club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger. George Weasley el­bowed Bole in the face in re­tal­ia­tion. Madam Hooch award­ed both teams penal­ties, and Wood pulled off an­oth­er spec­tac­ular save, mak­ing the score forty-​ten to Gryffind­or.

The Snitch had dis­ap­peared again. Mal­foy was still keep­ing close to Har­ry as he soared over the match, look­ing around for it – once Gryffind­or were fifty points ahead …

Katie scored. Fifty–ten. Fred and George Weasley were swoop­ing around her, clubs raised, in case any of the Slytherins were think­ing of re­venge. Bole and Der­rick took ad­van­tage of Fred and George’s ab­sence to aim both Bludgers at Wood; they caught him in the stom­ach, one af­ter the oth­er, and he rolled over in the air, clutch­ing his broom, com­plete­ly wind­ed.

Madam Hooch was be­side her­self.

‘You do not at­tack the Keep­er un­less the Quaf­fle is with­in the scor­ing area!’ she shrieked at Bole and Der­rick. ‘Gryffind­or penal­ty!’

And An­geli­na scored. Six­ty–ten. Mo­ments lat­er, Fred Weasley pelt­ed a Bludger at War­ring­ton, knock­ing the Quaf­fle out of his hands; Ali­cia seized it and put it through the Slytherin goal: sev­en­ty–ten.

The Gryffind­or crowd be­low were scream­ing them­selves hoarse – Gryffind­or were six­ty points in the lead, and if Har­ry caught the Snitch now, the Cup was theirs. Har­ry could al­most feel hun­dreds of eyes fol­low­ing him as he soared around the pitch, high above the rest of the game, with Mal­foy speed­ing along be­hind him.

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twen­ty feet above him.

Har­ry put on a huge burst of speed, the wind roar­ing in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but sud­den­ly, the Fire­bolt was slow­ing down –

Hor­ri­fied, he looked around. Mal­foy had thrown him­self for­ward, grabbed hold of the Fire­bolt’s tail and was pulling it back.

‘You –’

Har­ry was an­gry enough to hit Mal­foy, but he couldn’t reach. Mal­foy was pant­ing with the ef­fort of hold­ing on­to the Fire­bolt, but his eyes were sparkling ma­li­cious­ly. He had achieved what he’d want­ed – the Snitch had dis­ap­peared again.

‘Penal­ty! Penal­ty to Gryffind­or! I’ve nev­er seen such tac­tics!’ Madam Hooch screeched, shoot­ing up to where Mal­foy was slid­ing back on­to his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and One.

‘YOU CHEAT­ING SCUM!’ Lee Jor­dan was howl­ing in­to the mega­phone, danc­ing out of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s reach. ‘YOU FILTHY, CHEAT­ING B –’

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall didn’t even both­er to tell him off. She was ac­tu­al­ly shak­ing her fist in Mal­foy’s di­rec­tion; her hat had fall­en off, and she, too, was shout­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

Ali­cia took Gryffind­or’s penal­ty, but she was so an­gry she missed by sev­er­al feet. The Gryffind­or team was los­ing con­cen­tra­tion and the Slytherins, de­light­ed by Mal­foy’s foul on Har­ry, were be­ing spurred on to greater heights.

‘Slytherin in pos­ses­sion, Slytherin head­ing for goal – Mon­tague scores –’ Lee groaned. ‘Sev­en­ty–twen­ty to Gryffind­or …’

Har­ry was now mark­ing Mal­foy so close­ly their knees kept hit­ting each oth­er. Har­ry wasn’t go­ing to let Mal­foy any­where near the Snitch …

‘Get out of it, Pot­ter!’ Mal­foy yelled in frus­tra­tion, as he tried to turn and found Har­ry block­ing him.

‘An­geli­na John­son gets the Quaf­fle for Gryffind­or, come on, An­geli­na, COME ON!’

Har­ry looked round. Ev­ery sin­gle Slytherin play­er apart from Mal­foy, even the Slytherin Keep­er, was streak­ing up the pitch to­wards An­geli­na – they were all go­ing to block her –

Har­ry wheeled the Fire­bolt about, bent so low he was ly­ing flat along the han­dle and kicked it for­wards. Like a bul­let, he shot to­wards the Slytherins.

‘AAAAAAAR­RRGH!’

They scat­tered as the Fire­bolt zoomed to­wards them; An­geli­na’s way was clear.

‘SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffind­or lead by eighty points to twen­ty!’

Har­ry, who had al­most pelt­ed head­long in­to the stands, skid­ded to a halt in mid-​air, re­versed and zoomed back in­to the mid­dle of the pitch.

And then he saw some­thing to make his heart stand still. Mal­foy was div­ing, a look of tri­umph on his face – there, a few feet above the grass be­low, was a tiny, gold­en glim­mer.

Har­ry urged the Fire­bolt down­wards but Mal­foy was miles ahead.

‘Go! Go! Go!’ Har­ry urged his broom. They were gain­ing on Mal­foy … Har­ry flat­tened him­self to the broom han­dle as Bole sent a Bludger at him … he was at Mal­foy’s an­kles … he was lev­el –

Har­ry threw him­self for­wards, tak­ing both hands off his broom. He knocked Mal­foy’s arm out of the way and –

‘YES!’

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the sta­di­um ex­plod­ed. Har­ry soared above the crowd, an odd ring­ing in his ears. The tiny gold­en ball was held tight in his fist, beat­ing its wings hope­less­ly against his fin­gers.

Then Wood was speed­ing to­wards him, half-​blind­ed by tears; he seized Har­ry around the neck and sobbed un­re­strained­ly in­to his shoul­der. Har­ry felt two large thumps as Fred and George hit them; then An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie’s voic­es, ‘We’ve won the Cup! We’ve won the Cup!’ Tan­gled to­geth­er in a many-​armed hug, the Gryffind­or team sank, yelling hoarse­ly, back to earth.

Wave up­on wave of crim­son sup­port­ers was pour­ing over the bar­ri­ers on­to the pitch. Hands were rain­ing down on their backs. Har­ry had a con­fused im­pres­sion of noise and bod­ies press­ing in on him. Then he, and the rest of the team, were hoist­ed on­to the shoul­ders of the crowd. Thrust in­to the light, he saw Ha­grid, plas­tered with crim­son rosettes – ‘Yeh beat ’em, Har­ry, yeh beat ’em! Wait till I tell Buck­beak!’ There was Per­cy, jump­ing up and down like a ma­ni­ac, all dig­ni­ty for­got­ten. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was sob­bing hard­er even than Wood, wip­ing her eyes with an enor­mous Gryffind­or flag; and there, fight­ing their way to­wards Har­ry, were Ron and Hermione. Words failed them. They sim­ply beamed, as Har­ry was borne to­wards the stands, where Dum­ble­dore stood wait­ing with the enor­mous Quid­ditch Cup.

If on­ly there had been a De­men­tor around … As a sob­bing Wood passed Har­ry the Cup, as he lift­ed it in­to the air, Har­ry felt he could have pro­duced the world’s best Pa­tronus.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER SIXTEEN


Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s Pre­dic­tion



Har­ry’s eu­pho­ria at fi­nal­ly win­ning the Quid­ditch Cup last­ed at least a week. Even the weath­er seemed to be cel­ebrat­ing; as June ap­proached, the days be­came cloud­less and sul­try, and all any­body felt like do­ing was strolling in­to the grounds and flop­ping down on the grass with sev­er­al pints of iced pump­kin juice, per­haps play­ing a ca­su­al game of Gob­stones or watch­ing the gi­ant squid pro­pel it­self dream­ily across the sur­face of the lake.

But they couldn’t. The ex­ams were near­ly up­on them, and in­stead of laz­ing around out­side, the stu­dents were forced to re­main in­side the cas­tle, try­ing to bul­ly their brains in­to con­cen­trat­ing while en­tic­ing wafts of sum­mer air drift­ed in through the win­dows. Even Fred and George Weasley had been spot­ted work­ing; they were about to take their OWLs (Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­els). Per­cy was get­ting ready to sit his NEWTs (Nas­ti­ly Ex­haust­ing Wiz­ard­ing Tests), the high­est qual­ifi­ca­tion Hog­warts of­fered. As Per­cy hoped to en­ter the Min­istry of Mag­ic, he need­ed top grades. He was be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly edgy, and gave very se­vere pun­ish­ments to any­body who dis­turbed the qui­et of the com­mon room in the evenings. In fact, the on­ly per­son who seemed more anx­ious than Per­cy was Hermione.

Har­ry and Ron had giv­en up ask­ing her how she was man­ag­ing to at­tend sev­er­al class­es at once, but they couldn’t re­strain them­selves when they saw the ex­am timetable she had drawn up for her­self. The first col­umn read:



MON­DAY

9 o’clock, Arith­man­cy

9 o’clock, Trans­fig­ura­tion

Lunch

1 o’clock, Charms

1 o’clock, An­cient Runes



‘Hermione?’ Ron said cau­tious­ly, be­cause she was li­able to ex­plode when in­ter­rupt­ed these days. ‘Er – are you sure you’ve copied down these times right?’

‘What?’ snapped Hermione, pick­ing up the ex­am timetable and ex­am­in­ing it. ‘Yes, of course I have.’

‘Is there any point ask­ing how you’re go­ing to sit two ex­ams at once?’ said Har­ry.

‘No,’ said Hermione short­ly. ‘Has ei­ther of you seen my copy of Nu­merol­ogy and Gram­mat­ica?’

‘Oh, yeah, I bor­rowed it for a bit of bed­time read­ing,’ said Ron, but very qui­et­ly. Hermione start­ed shift­ing heaps of parch­ment around on her ta­ble, look­ing for the book. Just then, there was a rus­tle at the win­dow and Hed­wig flut­tered through it, a note clutched tight­ly in her beak.

‘It’s from Ha­grid,’ said Har­ry, rip­ping the note open. ‘Buck­beak’s ap­peal – it’s set for the sixth.’

‘That’s the day we fin­ish our ex­ams,’ said Hermione, still look­ing ev­ery­where for her Arith­man­cy book.

‘And they’re com­ing up here to do it,’ said Har­ry, still read­ing from the let­ter. ‘Some­one from the Min­istry of Mag­ic and – and an ex­ecu­tion­er.’

Hermione looked up, star­tled.

‘They’re bring­ing the ex­ecu­tion­er to the ap­peal! But that sounds as though they’ve al­ready de­cid­ed!’

‘Yeah, it does,’ said Har­ry slow­ly.

‘They can’t!’ Ron howled. ‘I’ve spent ages read­ing up stuff for him, they can’t just ig­nore it all!’

But Har­ry had a hor­ri­ble feel­ing that the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures had had its mind made up for it by Mr Mal­foy. Dra­co, who had been no­tice­ably sub­dued since Gryffind­or’s tri­umph in the Quid­ditch fi­nal, seemed to re­gain some of his old swag­ger over the next few days. From sneer­ing com­ments Har­ry over­heard, Mal­foy was cer­tain Buck­beak was go­ing to be killed, and seemed thor­ough­ly pleased with him­self for bring­ing it about. It was all Har­ry could do to stop him­self im­itat­ing Hermione and hit­ting Mal­foy in the face on these oc­ca­sions. And the worst thing of all was that they had no time or op­por­tu­ni­ty to go and see Ha­grid, be­cause the strict new se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures had not been lift­ed, and Har­ry didn’t dare re­trieve his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from be­low the one-​eyed witch.

*

Ex­am week be­gan and an un­nat­ural hush fell over the cas­tle. The third-​years emerged from Trans­fig­ura­tion at lunchtime on Mon­day limp and ashen-​faced, com­par­ing re­sults and be­moan­ing the dif­fi­cul­ty of the tasks they had been set, which had in­clud­ed turn­ing a teapot in­to a tor­toise. Hermione ir­ri­tat­ed the rest by fuss­ing about how her tor­toise had looked more like a tur­tle, which was the least of ev­ery­one else’s wor­ries.

‘Mine still had a spout for a tail, what a night­mare …’

‘Were the tor­tois­es sup­posed to breathe steam?’

‘It still had a wil­low-​pat­terned shell, d’you think that’ll count against me?’

Then, af­ter a hasty lunch, it was straight back up­stairs for the Charms ex­am. Hermione had been right; Pro­fes­sor Flitwick did in­deed test them on Cheer­ing Charms. Har­ry slight­ly over­did his out of nerves and Ron, who was part­ner­ing him, end­ed up in fits of hys­ter­ical laugh­ter and had to be led away to a qui­et room for an hour be­fore he was ready to per­form the Charm him­self. Af­ter din­ner, the stu­dents hur­ried back to their com­mon rooms, not to re­lax, but to start re­vis­ing for Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, Po­tions and As­tron­omy.

Ha­grid presid­ed over the Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures ex­am the fol­low­ing morn­ing with a very pre­oc­cu­pied air in­deed; his heart didn’t seem to be in it at all. He had pro­vid­ed a large tub of fresh Flob­ber­worms for the class, and told them that, to pass the test, their Flob­ber­worm had to still be alive at the end of one hour. As Flob­ber­worms flour­ished best if left to their own de­vices, it was the eas­iest ex­am any of them had ev­er sat, and al­so gave Har­ry, Ron and Hermione plen­ty of op­por­tu­ni­ty to speak to Ha­grid.

‘Beaky’s get­tin’ a bit de­pressed,’ Ha­grid told them, bend­ing low on the pre­tence of check­ing that Har­ry’s Flob­ber­worm was still alive. ‘Bin cooped up too long. But still … we’ll know day af­ter to­mor­row – one way or the oth­er.’

They had Po­tions that af­ter­noon, which was an un­qual­ified dis­as­ter. Try as Har­ry might, he couldn’t get his Con­fus­ing Con­coc­tion to thick­en, and Snape, stand­ing watch­ing with an air of vin­dic­tive plea­sure, scrib­bled some­thing that looked sus­pi­cious­ly like a ze­ro on­to his notes be­fore mov­ing away.

Then came As­tron­omy at mid­night, up on the tallest tow­er; His­to­ry of Mag­ic on Wednes­day morn­ing, in which Har­ry scrib­bled ev­ery­thing Flo­re­an Fortes­cue had ev­er told him about me­dieval witch hunts, while wish­ing he could have had one of Fortes­cue’s choco-​nut sun­daes with him in the sti­fling class­room. Wednes­day af­ter­noon meant Her­bol­ogy in the green­hous­es un­der a bak­ing hot sun; then back to the com­mon room once more, with the backs of their necks sun­burnt, think­ing long­ing­ly of this time next day, when it would all be over.

Their sec­ond from last ex­am, on Thurs­day morn­ing, was De­fence Against the Dark Arts. Pro­fes­sor Lupin had com­piled the most un­usu­al ex­am any of them had ev­er tak­en; a sort of ob­sta­cle course out­side in the sun, where they had to wade across a deep pad­dling pool con­tain­ing a Grindy­low, cross a se­ries of pot­holes full of Red Caps, squish their way across a patch of marsh, ig­nor­ing the mis­lead­ing di­rec­tions from a Hinky­punk, then climb in­to an old trunk and bat­tle with a new Bog­gart.

‘Ex­cel­lent, Har­ry,’ Lupin mut­tered, as Har­ry climbed out of the trunk, grin­ning. ‘Full marks.’

Flushed with his suc­cess, Har­ry hung around to watch Ron and Hermione. Ron did very well un­til he reached the Hinky­punk, which suc­cess­ful­ly con­fused him in­to sink­ing waist-​high in­to the quag­mire. Hermione did ev­ery­thing per­fect­ly un­til she reached the trunk with the Bog­gart in it. Af­ter about a minute in­side it, she burst out again, scream­ing.

‘Hermione!’ said Lupin, star­tled. ‘What’s the mat­ter?’

‘P-​P-​Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall!’ Hermione gasped, point­ing in­to the trunk. ‘Sh-​she said I’d failed ev­ery­thing!’

It took a lit­tle while to calm Hermione down. When at last she had re­gained a grip on her­self, she, Har­ry and Ron went back to the cas­tle. Ron was still slight­ly in­clined to laugh at Hermione’s Bog­gart, but an ar­gu­ment was avert­ed by the sight that met them on the top of the steps.

Cor­nelius Fudge, sweat­ing slight­ly in his pin­striped cloak, was stand­ing there star­ing out at the grounds. He start­ed at the sight of Har­ry.

‘Hel­lo there, Har­ry!’ he said. ‘Just had an ex­am, I ex­pect? Near­ly fin­ished?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. Hermione and Ron, not be­ing on speak­ing terms with the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, hov­ered awk­ward­ly in the back­ground.

‘Love­ly day,’ said Fudge, cast­ing an eye over the lake. ‘Pity … pity …’

He sighed deeply and looked down at Har­ry.

‘I’m here on an un­pleas­ant mis­sion, Har­ry. The Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures re­quired a wit­ness to the ex­ecu­tion of a mad Hip­pogriff. As I need­ed to vis­it Hog­warts to check on the Black sit­ua­tion, I was asked to step in.’

‘Does that mean the ap­peal’s al­ready hap­pened?’ Ron in­ter­rupt­ed, step­ping for­wards.

‘No, no, it’s sched­uled for this af­ter­noon,’ said Fudge, look­ing cu­ri­ous­ly at Ron.

‘Then you might not have to wit­ness an ex­ecu­tion at all!’ said Ron stout­ly. ‘The Hip­pogriff might get off!’

Be­fore Fudge could an­swer, two wiz­ards came through the cas­tle doors be­hind him. One was so an­cient he ap­peared to be with­er­ing be­fore their very eyes; the oth­er was tall and strap­ping, with a thin black mous­tache. Har­ry gath­ered that they were rep­re­sen­ta­tives of the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures, be­cause the very old wiz­ard squint­ed to­wards Ha­grid’s cab­in and said in a fee­ble voice, ‘Dear, dear, I’m get­ting too old for this … two o’clock, isn’t it, Fudge?’

The black-​mous­tached man was fin­ger­ing some­thing in his belt; Har­ry looked and saw that he was run­ning one broad thumb along the blade of a shin­ing axe. Ron opened his mouth to say some­thing, but Hermione nudged him hard in the ribs and jerked her head to­wards the En­trance Hall.

‘Why’d you stop me?’ said Ron an­gri­ly, as they en­tered the Great Hall for lunch. ‘Did you see them? They’ve even got the axe ready! This isn’t jus­tice!’

‘Ron, your dad works for the Min­istry. You can’t go say­ing things like that to his boss!’ said Hermione, but she, too, looked very up­set. ‘As long as Ha­grid keeps his head this time, and ar­gues his case prop­er­ly, they can’t pos­si­bly ex­ecute Buck­beak …’

But Har­ry could tell Hermione didn’t re­al­ly be­lieve what she was say­ing. All around them, peo­ple were talk­ing ex­cit­ed­ly as they ate their lunch, hap­pi­ly an­tic­ipat­ing the end of ex­ams that af­ter­noon, but Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, lost in wor­ry about Ha­grid and Buck­beak, didn’t join in.

Har­ry and Ron’s last ex­am was Div­ina­tion; Hermione’s, Mug­gle Stud­ies. They walked up the mar­ble stair­case to­geth­er. Hermione left them on the first floor and Har­ry and Ron pro­ceed­ed all the way up to the sev­enth, where many of their class were sit­ting on the spi­ral stair­case to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s class­room, try­ing to cram in a bit of last-​minute re­vi­sion.

‘She’s see­ing us all sep­arate­ly,’ Neville in­formed them, as they went to sit down next to him. He had his copy of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture open on his lap at the pages de­vot­ed to crys­tal-​gaz­ing. ‘Have ei­ther of you ev­er seen any­thing in a crys­tal ball?’ he asked them un­hap­pi­ly.

‘Nope,’ said Ron, in an off­hand voice. He kept check­ing his watch; Har­ry knew that he was count­ing down the time un­til Buck­beak’s ap­peal start­ed.

The queue of peo­ple out­side the class­room short­ened very slow­ly. As each per­son climbed back down the sil­ver lad­der, the rest of the class hissed, ‘What did she ask? Was it OK?’

But they all re­fused to say.

‘She says the crys­tal ball’s told her that, if I tell you, I’ll have a hor­ri­ble ac­ci­dent!’ squeaked Neville, as he clam­bered back down the lad­der to­wards Har­ry and Ron, who had now reached the land­ing.

‘That’s con­ve­nient,’ snort­ed Ron. ‘You know, I’m start­ing to think Hermione was right about her’ (he jabbed his thumb to­wards the trap­door over­head), ‘she’s a right old fraud.’

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry, look­ing at his own watch. It was now two o’clock. ‘Wish she’d hur­ry up …’

Par­vati came back down the lad­der glow­ing with pride.

‘She says I’ve got all the mak­ings of a true Seer,’ she in­formed Har­ry and Ron. ‘I saw loads of stuff … well, good luck!’

She hur­ried off down the spi­ral stair­case to­wards Laven­der.

‘Ronald Weasley’ said the fa­mil­iar, misty voice from over their heads. Ron gri­maced at Har­ry, and climbed the sil­ver lad­der out of sight. Har­ry was now the on­ly per­son left to be test­ed. He set­tled him­self on the floor with his back against the wall, lis­ten­ing to a fly buzzing in the sun­ny win­dow, his mind across the grounds with Ha­grid.

Fi­nal­ly, af­ter about twen­ty min­utes, Ron’s large feet reap­peared on the lad­der.

‘How’d it go?’ Har­ry asked him, stand­ing up.

‘Rub­bish,’ said Ron. ‘Couldn’t see a thing, so I made some stuff up. Don’t think she was con­vinced, though …’

‘Meet you in the com­mon room,’ Har­ry mut­tered, as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s voice called, ‘Har­ry Pot­ter!’

The tow­er room was hot­ter than ev­er be­fore; the cur­tains were closed, the fire was alight, and the usu­al sick­ly scent made Har­ry cough as he stum­bled through the clut­ter of chairs and ta­bles to where Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sat wait­ing for him be­fore a large crys­tal ball.

‘Good day, my dear,’ she said soft­ly. ‘If you would kind­ly gaze in­to the Orb … take your time, now … then tell me what you see with­in it …’

Har­ry bent over the crys­tal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could, will­ing it to show him some­thing oth­er than swirling white fog, but noth­ing hap­pened.

‘Well?’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney prompt­ed del­icate­ly. ‘What do you see?’

The heat was over­pow­er­ing and his nos­trils were sting­ing with the per­fumed smoke waft­ing from the fire be­side them. He thought of what Ron had just said, and de­cid­ed to pre­tend.

‘Er –,’ said Har­ry, ‘a dark shape … um …’

‘What does it re­sem­ble?’ whis­pered Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. ‘Think, now …’

Har­ry cast his mind around and it land­ed on Buck­beak.

‘A Hip­pogriff,’ he said firm­ly.

‘In­deed!’ whis­pered Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, scrib­bling keen­ly on the parch­ment perched up­on her knees. ‘My boy, you may well be see­ing the out­come of poor Ha­grid’s trou­ble with the Min­istry of Mag­ic! Look clos­er … does the Hip­pogriff ap­pear to … have its head?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry firm­ly.

‘Are you sure?’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney urged him. ‘Are you quite sure, dear? You don’t see it writhing on the ground, per­haps, and a shad­owy fig­ure rais­ing an axe be­hind it?’

‘No!’ said Har­ry, start­ing to feel slight­ly sick.

‘No blood? No weep­ing Ha­grid?’

‘No!’ said Har­ry again, want­ing more than ev­er to leave the room and the heat. ‘It looks fine, it’s – fly­ing away …’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sighed. ‘Well, dear, I think we’ll leave it there … a lit­tle dis­ap­point­ing … but I’m sure you did your best.’

Re­lieved, Har­ry got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a loud, harsh voice spoke be­hind him.

‘It will hap­pen tonight.’

Har­ry wheeled around. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had gone rigid in her arm­chair; her eyes were un­fo­cused and her mouth sag­ging.

‘S-​sor­ry?’ said Har­ry.

But Pro­fes­sor Trelawney didn’t seem to hear him. Her eyes start­ed to roll. Har­ry stood there in a pan­ic. She looked as though she was about to have some sort of seizure. He hes­itat­ed, think­ing of run­ning to the hos­pi­tal wing – and then Pro­fes­sor Trelawney spoke again, in the same harsh voice, quite un­like her own:

‘The Dark Lord lies alone and friend­less, aban­doned by his fol­low­ers. His ser­vant has been chained these twelve years. Tonight, be­fore mid­night, the ser­vant will break free and set out to re­join his mas­ter. The Dark Lord will rise again with his ser­vant’s aid, greater and more ter­ri­ble than ev­er be­fore. Tonight … be­fore mid­night … the ser­vant … will set out re­join … his mas­ter …’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s head fell for­wards on­to her chest. She made a grunt­ing sort of noise. Then, quite sud­den­ly, her head snapped up again.

‘I’m so sor­ry, dear boy,’ she said dream­ily. ‘The heat of the day, you know … I drift­ed off for a mo­ment …’

Har­ry stood there, still star­ing.

‘Is there any­thing wrong, my dear?’

‘You – you just told me that the – the Dark Lord’s go­ing to rise again … that his ser­vant’s go­ing to go back to him …’

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney looked thor­ough­ly star­tled.

‘The Dark Lord? He Who Must Not Be Named? My dear boy, that’s hard­ly some­thing to joke about … rise again, in­deed …’

‘But you just said it! You said the Dark Lord –’

‘I think you must have dozed off too, dear!’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. ‘I would cer­tain­ly not pre­sume to pre­dict any­thing quite as far-​fetched as that!’

Har­ry climbed back down the lad­der and the spi­ral stair­case, won­der­ing … had he just heard Pro­fes­sor Trelawney make a re­al pre­dic­tion? Or had that been her idea of an im­pres­sive end to the test?

Five min­utes lat­er he was dash­ing past the se­cu­ri­ty trolls out­side the en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s words still re­sound­ing in his head. Peo­ple were strid­ing past him in the op­po­site di­rec­tion, laugh­ing and jok­ing, head­ing for the grounds and a bit of long-​await­ed free­dom; by the time he had reached the por­trait hole and en­tered the com­mon room, it was al­most de­sert­ed. Over in a cor­ner, how­ev­er, sat Ron and Hermione.

‘Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’ Har­ry pant­ed, ‘just told me –’ But he stopped abrupt­ly at the sight of their faces. ‘Buck­beak lost,’ said Ron weak­ly. ‘Ha­grid’s just sent this.’ Ha­grid’s note was dry this time, no tears had splat­tered it, yet his hand seemed to have shak­en so much as he wrote that it was hard­ly leg­ible.



Lost ap­peal. They’re go­ing to ex­ecute at sun­set. Noth­ing you can do. Don’t come down. I don’t want you to see it.

Ha­grid



‘We’ve got to go,’ said Har­ry at once. ‘He can’t just sit there on his own, wait­ing for the ex­ecu­tion­er!’

‘Sun­set, though,’ said Ron, who was star­ing out of the win­dow in a glazed sort of way. ‘We’d nev­er be al­lowed … spe­cial­ly you, Har­ry …’

Har­ry sank his head in­to his hands, think­ing.

‘If we on­ly had the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak …’

‘Where is it?’ said Hermione.

Har­ry told her about leav­ing it in the pas­sage­way un­der the one-​eyed witch.

‘… if Snape sees me any­where near there again, I’m in se­ri­ous trou­ble,’ he fin­ished.

‘That’s true,’ said Hermione, get­ting to her feet. ‘If he sees you … how do you open the witch’s hump again?’

‘You – you tap it and say, ‘Dis­sendi­um’,’ said Har­ry. ‘But –’

Hermione didn’t wait for the rest of his sen­tence; she strode across the room, pushed the Fat La­dy’s por­trait open and van­ished from sight.

‘She hasn’t gone to get it?’ Ron said, star­ing af­ter her.

She had. Hermione re­turned a quar­ter of an hour lat­er with the sil­very Cloak fold­ed care­ful­ly un­der her robes.

‘Hermione, I don’t know what’s got in­to you late­ly!’ said Ron, as­tound­ed. ‘First you hit Mal­foy, then you walk out on Pro­fes­sor Trelawney –’

Hermione looked rather flat­tered.

*

They went down to din­ner with ev­ery­body else, but did not re­turn to Gryffind­or Tow­er af­ter­wards. Har­ry had the Cloak hid­den down the front of his robes; he had to keep his arms fold­ed to hide the lump. They skulked in an emp­ty cham­ber off the En­trance Hall, lis­ten­ing, un­til they were sure it was de­sert­ed. They heard a last pair of peo­ple hur­ry­ing across the hall, and a door slam­ming. Hermione poked her head around the door.

‘OK,’ she whis­pered, ‘no one there – Cloak on –’

Walk­ing very close to­geth­er so that no­body would see them, they crossed the Hall on tip­toe be­neath the Cloak, then walked down the stone front steps in­to the grounds. The sun was al­ready sink­ing be­hind the For­bid­den For­est, gild­ing the top branch­es of the trees.

They reached Ha­grid’s cab­in and knocked. He was a minute in an­swer­ing, and when he did, he looked all around for his vis­itor, pale-​faced and trem­bling.

‘It’s us,’ Har­ry hissed. ‘We’re wear­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.’

‘Yeh shouldn’ve come!’ Ha­grid whis­pered, but he stood back, and they stepped in­side. Ha­grid shut the door quick­ly and Har­ry pulled off the Cloak.

Ha­grid was not cry­ing, nor did he throw him­self up­on their necks. He looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. This help­less­ness was worse to watch than tears.

‘Wan’ some tea?’ he said. His great hands were shak­ing as he reached for the ket­tle.

‘Where’s Buck­beak, Ha­grid?’ said Hermione hes­itant­ly.

‘I – I took him out­side,’ said Ha­grid, spilling milk all over the ta­ble as he filled up the jug. ‘He’s teth­ered in me pump­kin patch. Thought he ough­ta see the trees an’ – an’ smell fresh air – be­fore –’

Ha­grid’s hand trem­bled so vi­olent­ly that the milk jug slipped from his grasp and shat­tered all over the floor.

‘I’ll do it, Ha­grid,’ said Hermione quick­ly, hur­ry­ing over and start­ing to clean up the mess.

‘There’s an­oth­er one in the cup­board,’ Ha­grid said, sit­ting down and wip­ing his fore­head on his sleeve. Har­ry glanced at Ron, who looked back hope­less­ly.

‘Isn’t there any­thing any­one can do, Ha­grid?’ Har­ry asked fierce­ly, sit­ting down next to him. ‘Dum­ble­dore –’

‘He’s tried,’ said Ha­grid. ‘He’s got no pow­er ter over­rule the Com­mit­tee. He told ’em Buck­beak’s all right, but they’re scared … yeh know what Lu­cius Mal­foy’s like … threat­ened ’em, I ex­pect … an’ the ex­ecu­tion­er, Mac­nair, he’s an old pal o’ Mal­foy’s … but it’ll be quick an’ clean … an’ I’ll be be­side him …’

Ha­grid swal­lowed. His eyes were dart­ing all over the cab­in, as though look­ing for some shred of hope or com­fort.

‘Dum­ble­dore’s gonna come down while it – while it hap­pens. Wrote me this mornin’. Said he wants ter – ter be with me. Great man, Dum­ble­dore …’

Hermione, who had been rum­mag­ing in Ha­grid’s cup­board for an­oth­er milk jug, let out a small, quick­ly sti­fled sob. She straight­ened up with the new jug in her hands, fight­ing back tears.

‘We’ll stay with you, too, Ha­grid,’ she be­gan, but Ha­grid shook his shag­gy head.

‘Yeh’re ter go back up ter the cas­tle. I told yeh, I don’ wan’ yeh watchin’. An’ yeh shouldn’ be down here any­way … if Fudge an’ Dum­ble­dore catch yeh out with­out per­mis­sion, Har­ry, yeh’ll be in big trou­ble.’

Silent tears were now stream­ing down Hermione’s face, but she hid them from Ha­grid, bustling around mak­ing tea. Then, as she picked up the milk bot­tle to pour some in­to the jug, she let out a shriek.

‘Ron! I – I don’t be­lieve it – it’s Scab­bers!’

Ron gaped at her.

‘What are you talk­ing about?’

Hermione car­ried the milk jug over to the ta­ble and turned it up­side-​down. With a fran­tic squeak, and much scram­bling to get back in­side, Scab­bers the rat came slid­ing out on­to the ta­ble.

‘Scab­bers!’ said Ron blankly. ‘Scab­bers, what are you do­ing here?’

He grabbed the strug­gling rat and held him up to the light. Scab­bers looked dread­ful. He was thin­ner than ev­er, large tufts of hair had fall­en out leav­ing wide bald patch­es, and he writhed in Ron’s hands as though des­per­ate to free him­self.

‘It’s OK, Scab­bers!’ said Ron. ‘No cats! There’s noth­ing here to hurt you!’

Ha­grid sud­den­ly stood up, his eyes fixed on the win­dow. His nor­mal­ly rud­dy face had gone the colour of parch­ment.

‘They’re comin’ …’

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione whipped around. A group of men was walk­ing down the dis­tant cas­tle steps. In front was Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, his sil­ver beard gleam­ing in the dy­ing sun. Next to him trot­ted Cor­nelius Fudge. Be­hind them came the fee­ble old Com­mit­tee mem­ber and the ex­ecu­tion­er, Mac­nair.

‘Yeh got­ta go,’ said Ha­grid. Ev­ery inch of him was trem­bling. ‘They mustn’ find yeh here … go on, now …’

Ron stuffed Scab­bers in­to his pock­et and Hermione picked up the Cloak.

‘I’ll let yeh out the back way,’ said Ha­grid.

They fol­lowed him to the door in­to his back gar­den. Har­ry felt strange­ly un­re­al, and even more so when he saw Buck­beak a few yards away, teth­ered to a tree be­hind Ha­grid’s pump­kin patch. Buck­beak seemed to know some­thing was hap­pen­ing. He turned his sharp head from side to side, and pawed the ground ner­vous­ly.

‘It’s OK, Beaky,’ said Ha­grid soft­ly. ‘It’s OK …’ He turned to Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘Go on,’ he said. ‘Get go­ing!’

But they didn’t move.

‘Ha­grid, we can’t –’

‘We’ll tell them what re­al­ly hap­pened –’

‘They can’t kill him –’

‘Go!’ said Ha­grid fierce­ly. ‘It’s bad enough with­out you lot in trou­ble an’ all!’

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the Cloak over Har­ry and Ron, they heard voic­es at the front of the cab­in. Ha­grid looked at the place where they had just van­ished from sight.

‘Go quick,’ he said hoarse­ly. ‘Don’ lis­ten …’

And he strode back in­to his cab­in as some­one knocked at the front door.

Slow­ly, in a kind of hor­ri­fied trance, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione set off silent­ly around Ha­grid’s house. As they reached the oth­er side, the front door closed with a sharp snap.

‘Please, let’s hur­ry,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘I can’t stand it, I can’t bear it …’

They start­ed up the slop­ing lawn to­wards the cas­tle. The sun was sink­ing fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, pur­ple-​tinged grey, but to the west there was a ru­by-​red glow.

Ron stopped dead.

‘Oh, please, Ron,’ Hermione be­gan.

‘It’s Scab­bers – he won’t – stay put –’

Ron was bent over, try­ing to keep Scab­bers in his pock­et, but the rat was go­ing berserk; squeak­ing mad­ly, twist­ing and flail­ing, try­ing to sink his teeth in­to Ron’s hand.

‘Scab­bers, it’s me, you id­iot, it’s Ron,’ Ron hissed.

They heard a door open be­hind them and men’s voic­es.

‘Oh Ron, please let’s move, they’re go­ing to do it!’ Hermione breathed.

‘OK – Scab­bers, stay put –’

They walked for­wards; Har­ry, like Hermione, was try­ing not to lis­ten to the rum­ble of voic­es be­hind them. Ron stopped again.

‘I can’t hold him – Scab­bers, shut up, ev­ery­one’ll hear us –’

The rat was squeal­ing wild­ly, but not loud­ly enough to cov­er up the sounds drift­ing from Ha­grid’s gar­den. There was a jum­ble of in­dis­tinct male voic­es, a si­lence and then, with­out warn­ing, the un­mis­take­able swish and thud of an axe.

Hermione swayed on the spot.

‘They did it!’ she whis­pered to Har­ry. ‘I d-​don’t be­lieve it – they did it!’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


Cat, Rat and Dog



Har­ry’s mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood trans­fixed with hor­ror un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. The very last rays of the set­ting sun were cast­ing a bloody light over the long-​shad­owed grounds. Then, be­hind them, they heard a wild howl­ing.

‘Ha­grid,’ Har­ry mut­tered. With­out think­ing about what he was do­ing, he made to turn back, but both Ron and Hermione seized his arms.

‘We can’t,’ said Ron, who was pa­per white. ‘He’ll be in worse trou­ble if they know we’ve been to see him …’

Hermione’s breath­ing was shal­low and un­even.

‘How – could – they?’ she choked. ‘How could they?’

‘Come on,’ said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chat­ter­ing.

They set off back to­wards the cas­tle, walk­ing slow­ly to keep them­selves hid­den un­der the Cloak. Light was fad­ing fast now. By the time they reached open ground, dark­ness was set­tling like a spell around them.

‘Scab­bers, keep still,’ Ron hissed, clamp­ing his hand over his chest. The rat was wrig­gling mad­ly. Ron came to a sud­den halt, try­ing to force Scab­bers deep­er in­to his pock­et. ‘What’s the mat­ter with you, you stupid rat? Stay still – OUCH! He bit me!’

‘Ron, be qui­et!’ Hermione whis­pered ur­gent­ly. ‘Fudge’ll be out here in a minute –’

‘He won’t – stay – put –’

Scab­bers was plain­ly ter­ri­fied. He was writhing with all his might, try­ing to break free of Ron’s grip.

‘What’s the mat­ter with him?’

But Har­ry had just seen – slink­ing to­wards them, his body low to the ground, wide yel­low eyes glint­ing eeri­ly in the dark­ness – Crook­shanks. Whether he could see them, or was fol­low­ing the sound of Scab­bers’s squeaks, Har­ry couldn’t tell.

‘Crook­shanks!’ Hermione moaned. ‘No, go away, Crook­shanks! Go away!’

But the cat was get­ting near­er –

‘Scab­bers – NO!’

Too late – the rat had slipped be­tween Ron’s clutch­ing fin­gers, hit the ground and scam­pered away. In one bound, Crook­shanks sprang af­ter him, and be­fore Har­ry or Hermione could stop him, Ron had thrown the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak off him­self and pelt­ed away in­to the dark­ness.

‘Ron!’ Hermione moaned.

She and Har­ry looked at each oth­er, then fol­lowed at a sprint; it was im­pos­si­ble to run full out un­der the Cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed be­hind them like a ban­ner as they hur­tled af­ter Ron; they could hear his feet thun­der­ing along ahead, and his shouts at Crook­shanks.

‘Get away from him – get away – Scab­bers, come here –’

There was a loud thud.

‘Gotcha! Get off, you stink­ing cat –’

Har­ry and Hermione al­most fell over Ron; they skid­ded to a stop right in front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Scab­bers was back in his pock­et; he had both hands held tight over the quiv­er­ing lump.

‘Ron – come on – back un­der the Cloak –’ Hermione pant­ed. ‘Dum­ble­dore – the Min­is­ter – they’ll be com­ing back out in a minute –’

But be­fore they could cov­er them­selves again, be­fore they could even catch their breath, they heard the soft pound­ing of gi­gan­tic paws. Some­thing was bound­ing to­wards them out of the dark – an enor­mous, pale-​eyed, jet-​black dog.

Har­ry reached for his wand, but too late – the dog had made an enor­mous leap and its front paws hit him on the chest. He keeled over back­wards in a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch-​long teeth –

But the force of its leap had car­ried it too far; it rolled off him; dazed, feel­ing as though his ribs were bro­ken, Har­ry tried to stand up; he could hear it growl­ing as it skid­ded around for a new at­tack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back to­wards them, he pushed Har­ry aside; the dog’s jaws fas­tened in­stead around Ron’s out­stretched arm. Har­ry lunged at it and seized a hand­ful of the brute’s hair, but it was drag­ging Ron away as eas­ily as if he were a rag-​doll –

Then, out of nowhere, some­thing hit Har­ry so hard across the face he was knocked off his feet again. He heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall, too. Har­ry groped for his wand, blink­ing blood out of his eyes –

‘Lu­mos!’ he whis­pered.

The wand-​light showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased Scab­bers in­to the shad­ow of the Whomp­ing Wil­low and its branch­es were creak­ing as though in a high wind, whip­ping back­wards and for­wards to stop them go­ing near­er.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, drag­ging Ron back­wards in­to a large gap in the roots – Ron was fight­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, but his head and tor­so were slip­ping out of sight –

‘Ron!’ Har­ry shout­ed, try­ing to fol­low, but a heavy branch whipped lethal­ly through the air and he was forced back­wards again.

All they could see now was one of Ron’s legs, which he had hooked around a root in an ef­fort to stop the dog pulling him fur­ther un­der­ground. Then a hor­ri­ble crack cut the air like a gun­shot; Ron’s leg had bro­ken, and next sec­ond, his foot had van­ished from sight.

‘Har­ry – we’ve got to go for help –’ Hermione cried; she was bleed­ing too; the Wil­low had cut her across the shoul­der.

‘No! That thing’s big enough to eat him, we haven’t got time –’

‘We’re nev­er go­ing to get through with­out help –’

An­oth­er branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuck­les.

‘If that dog can get in, we can,’ Har­ry pant­ed, dart­ing here and there, try­ing to find a way through the vi­cious, swish­ing branch­es, but he couldn’t get an inch near­er to the tree-​roots with­out be­ing in range of the tree’s blows.

‘Oh, help, help,’ Hermione whis­pered fran­ti­cal­ly, danc­ing un­cer­tain­ly on the spot, ‘please …’

Crook­shanks dart­ed for­wards. He slith­ered be­tween the bat­ter­ing branch­es like a snake and placed his front paws up­on a knot on the trunk.

Abrupt­ly, as though the tree had been turned to mar­ble, it stopped mov­ing. Not a leaf twitched or shook.

‘Crook­shanks!’ Hermione whis­pered un­cer­tain­ly. She now grasped Har­ry’s arm painful­ly hard. ‘How did he know –?’

‘He’s friends with that dog,’ said Har­ry grim­ly. ‘I’ve seen them to­geth­er. Come on – and keep your wand out –’

They cov­ered the dis­tance to the trunk in sec­onds, but be­fore they had reached the gap in the roots, Crook­shanks had slid in­to it with a flick of his bot­tle-​brush tail. Har­ry went next; he crawled for­wards, head­first, and slid down an earthy slope to the bot­tom of a very low tun­nel. Crook­shanks was a lit­tle way along, his eyes flash­ing in the light from Har­ry’s wand. Sec­onds lat­er, Hermione slith­ered down be­side him.

‘Where’s Ron?’ she whis­pered in a ter­ri­fied voice.

‘This way,’ said Har­ry, set­ting off, bent-​backed, af­ter Crook­shanks.

‘Where does this tun­nel come out?’ Hermione asked breath­less­ly from be­hind him.

‘I don’t know … it’s marked on the Ma­raud­er’s Map but Fred and George said no one’s ev­er got in­to it. It goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it ends up in Hogsmeade …’

They moved as fast as they could, bent al­most dou­ble; ahead of them, Crook­shanks’s tail bobbed in and out of view. On and on went the pas­sage; it felt at least as long as the one to Hon­ey­dukes. All Har­ry could think of was Ron, and what the enor­mous dog might be do­ing to him … he was draw­ing breath in sharp, painful gasps, run­ning at a crouch …

And then the tun­nel be­gan to rise; mo­ments lat­er it twist­ed, and Crook­shanks had gone. In­stead, Har­ry could see a patch of dim light through a small open­ing.

He and Hermione paused, gasp­ing for breath, edg­ing for­wards. Both raised their wands to see what lay be­yond.

It was a room, a very dis­or­dered, dusty room. Pa­per was peel­ing from the walls; there were stains all over the floor; ev­ery piece of fur­ni­ture was bro­ken as though some­body had smashed it. The win­dows were all board­ed-​up.

Har­ry glanced at Hermione, who looked very fright­ened, but nod­ded.

Har­ry pulled him­self out of the hole, star­ing around. The room was de­sert­ed, but a door to their right stood open, lead­ing to a shad­owy hall­way. Hermione sud­den­ly grabbed Har­ry’s arm again. Her wide eyes were trav­el­ling around the board­ed win­dows.

‘Har­ry,’ she whis­pered. ‘I think we’re in the Shriek­ing Shack.’

Har­ry looked around. His eyes fell on a wood­en chair near them. Large chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off en­tire­ly.

‘Ghosts didn’t do that,’ he said slow­ly.

At that mo­ment, there was a creak over­head. Some­thing had moved up­stairs. Both of them looked up at the ceil­ing. Hermione’s grip on Har­ry’s arm was so tight he was los­ing feel­ing in his fin­gers. He raised his eye­brows at her; she nod­ded again and let go.

Qui­et­ly as they could, they crept out in­to the hall and up the crum­bling stair­case. Ev­ery­thing was cov­ered in a thick lay­er of dust ex­cept the floor, where a wide, shiny stripe had been made by some­thing be­ing dragged up­stairs.

They reached the dark land­ing.

‘Nox,’ they whis­pered to­geth­er, and the lights at the end of their wands went out. On­ly one door was open. As they crept to­wards it, they heard move­ment from be­hind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They ex­changed a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tight­ly be­fore him, Har­ry kicked the door wide open.

On a mag­nif­icent four-​poster bed with dusty hang­ings lay Crook­shanks, purring loud­ly at the sight of them. On the floor be­side him, clutch­ing his leg, which stuck out at a strange an­gle, was Ron.

Har­ry and Hermione dashed across to him.

‘Ron – are you OK?’

‘Where’s the dog?’

‘Not a dog,’ Ron moaned. His teeth were grit­ted with pain. ‘Har­ry it’s a trap –’

‘What –’

‘He’s the dog … he’s an An­ima­gus …’

Ron was star­ing over Har­ry’s shoul­der. Har­ry wheeled around. With a snap, the man in the shad­ows closed the door be­hind them.

A mass of filthy, mat­ted hair hung to his el­bows. If eyes hadn’t been shin­ing out of the deep, dark sock­ets, he might have been a corpse. The waxy skin was stretched so tight­ly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull. His yel­low teeth were bared in a grin. It was Sir­ius Black.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ he croaked, point­ing Ron’s wand at them.

Har­ry and Hermione’s wands shot out of their hands, high in the air, and Black caught them. Then he took a step clos­er. His eyes were fixed on Har­ry.

‘I thought you’d come and help your friend,’ he said hoarse­ly. His voice sound­ed as though he had long ago lost the habit of us­ing it. ‘Your fa­ther would have done the same for me. Brave of you, not to run for a teach­er. I’m grate­ful … it will make ev­ery­thing much eas­ier …’

The taunt about his fa­ther rang in Har­ry’s ears as though Black had bel­lowed it. A boil­ing hate erupt­ed in Har­ry’s chest, leav­ing no place for fear. For the first time in his life, he want­ed his wand back in his hand, not to de­fend him­self, but to at­tack … to kill. With­out know­ing what he was do­ing, he start­ed for­wards, but there was a sud­den move­ment on ei­ther side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him back. ‘No, Har­ry!’ Hermione gasped in a pet­ri­fied whis­per; Ron, how­ev­er, spoke to Black.

‘If you want to kill Har­ry, you’ll have to kill us, too!’ he said fierce­ly, though the ef­fort of stand­ing up had drained him of still more colour, and he swayed slight­ly as he spoke.

Some­thing flick­ered in Black’s shad­owed eyes.

‘Lie down,’ he said qui­et­ly to Ron. ‘You will dam­age that leg even more.’

‘Did you hear me?’ Ron said weak­ly, though he was cling­ing painful­ly to Har­ry to stay up­right. ‘You’ll have to kill all three of us!’

‘There’ll on­ly be one mur­der here tonight,’ said Black, and his grin widened.

‘Why’s that?’ Har­ry spat, try­ing to wrench him­self free of Ron and Hermione. ‘Didn’t care last time, did you? Didn’t mind slaugh­ter­ing all those Mug­gles to get at Pet­ti­grew … What’s the mat­ter, gone soft in Azk­aban?’

‘Har­ry!’ Hermione whim­pered. ‘Be qui­et!’

‘HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!’ Har­ry roared, and with a huge ef­fort he broke free of Hermione and Ron’s re­straint and lunged for­wards –

He had for­got­ten about mag­ic – he had for­got­ten that he was short and skin­ny and thir­teen, where­as Black was a tall, full-​grown man. All Har­ry knew was that he want­ed to hurt Black as bad­ly as he could and that he didn’t care how much he got hurt in re­turn …

Per­haps it was the shock of Har­ry do­ing some­thing so stupid, but Black didn’t raise the wands in time. One of Har­ry’s hands fas­tened over Black’s wast­ed wrist, forc­ing the wandtips away; the knuck­les of Har­ry’s oth­er hand col­lid­ed with the side of Black’s head and they fell, back­wards, in­to the wall –

Hermione was scream­ing; Ron was yelling; there was a blind­ing flash as the wands in Black’s hand sent in­to the air a jet of sparks which missed Har­ry’s face by inch­es; Har­ry felt the shrunk­en arm un­der his fin­gers twist­ing mad­ly, but he clung on, his oth­er hand punch­ing ev­ery part of Black it could find.

But Black’s free hand had found Har­ry’s throat –

‘No,’ he hissed. ‘I’ve wait­ed too long –’

The fin­gers tight­ened, Har­ry choked, his glass­es askew.

Then he saw Hermione’s foot swing out of nowhere. Black let go of Har­ry with a grunt of pain. Ron had thrown him­self on Black’s wand hand and Har­ry heard a faint clat­ter –

He fought free of the tan­gle of bod­ies and saw his own wand rolling across the floor; he threw him­self to­wards it but –

‘Argh!’

Crook­shanks had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk them­selves deep in­to Har­ry’s arm; Har­ry threw him off, but Crook­shanks now dart­ed to­wards Har­ry’s wand –

‘NO YOU DON’T!’ roared Har­ry, and he aimed a kick at Crook­shanks that made the cat leap aside, spit­ting; Har­ry snatched up his wand and turned –

‘Get out of the way!’ he shout­ed at Ron and Hermione.

They didn’t need telling twice. Hermione, gasp­ing for breath, her lip bleed­ing, scram­bled aside, snatch­ing up her and Ron’s wands. Ron crawled to the four-​poster and col­lapsed on­to it, pant­ing, his white face now tinged with green, both hands clutch­ing his bro­ken leg.

Black was sprawled at the bot­tom of the wall. His thin chest rose and fell rapid­ly as he watched Har­ry walk­ing slow­ly near­er, his wand point­ing straight at Black’s heart.

‘Go­ing to kill me, Har­ry?’ he whis­pered.

Har­ry stopped right above him, his wand still point­ing at Black’s chest, look­ing down at him. A livid bruise was ris­ing around Black’s left eye and his nose was bleed­ing.

‘You killed my par­ents,’ said Har­ry, his voice shak­ing slight­ly, but his wand hand quite steady.

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

‘I don’t de­ny it,’ he said, very qui­et­ly. ‘But if you knew the whole sto­ry –’

‘The whole sto­ry?’ Har­ry re­peat­ed, a fu­ri­ous pound­ing in his ears. ‘You sold them to Volde­mort, that’s all I need to know!’

‘You’ve got to lis­ten to me,’ Black said, and there was a note of ur­gen­cy in his voice now. ‘You’ll re­gret it if you don’t … you don’t un­der­stand …’

‘I un­der­stand a lot bet­ter than you think,’ said Har­ry, and his voice shook more than ev­er. ‘You nev­er heard her, did you? My mum … try­ing to stop Volde­mort killing me … and you did that … you did it …’

Be­fore ei­ther of them could say an­oth­er word, some­thing gin­ger streaked past Har­ry; Crook­shanks leapt on­to Black’s chest, and set­tled him­self there, right over Black’s heart. Black blinked and looked down at the cat.

‘Get off,’ he mur­mured, try­ing to push Crook­shanks off him.

But Crook­shanks sank his claws in­to Black’s robes and wouldn’t shift. He turned his ug­ly, squashed face to Har­ry, and looked up at him with those great yel­low eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob.

Har­ry stared down at Black and Crook­shanks, his grip tight­en­ing on the wand. So what if he had to kill the cat, too? It was in league with Black … if it was pre­pared to die, try­ing to pro­tect Black, that wasn’t Har­ry’s busi­ness … if Black want­ed to save it, that on­ly proved he cared more for Crook­shanks than Har­ry’s par­ents …

Har­ry raised the wand. Now was the mo­ment to do it. Now was the mo­ment to avenge his moth­er and fa­ther. He was go­ing to kill Black. He had to kill Black. This was his chance …

The sec­onds length­ened, and still Har­ry stood frozen there, wand poised, Black star­ing up at him, Crook­shanks on his chest. Ron’s ragged breath­ing came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent.

And then came a new sound –

Muf­fled foot­steps were echo­ing up through the floor – some­one was mov­ing down­stairs.

‘WE’RE UP HERE!’ Hermione screamed sud­den­ly. ‘WE’RE UP HERE – SIR­IUS BLACK – QUICK!’

Black made a star­tled move­ment that al­most dis­lodged Crook­shanks; Har­ry gripped his wand con­vul­sive­ly – Do it now! said a voice in his head – but the foot­steps were thun­der­ing up the stairs and Har­ry still hadn’t done it.

The door of the room burst open in a show­er of red sparks and Har­ry wheeled around as Pro­fes­sor Lupin came hurtling in­to the room, his face blood­less, his wand raised and ready. His eyes flick­ered over Ron, ly­ing on the floor, over Hermione, cow­er­ing next to the door, to Har­ry, stand­ing there with his wand cov­er­ing Black, and then to Black him­self, crum­pled and bleed­ing at Har­ry’s feet.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ Lupin shout­ed.

Har­ry’s wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Hermione was hold­ing. Lupin caught them all deft­ly, then moved in­to the room, star­ing at Black, who still had Crook­shanks ly­ing pro­tec­tive­ly across his chest.

Har­ry stood there, feel­ing sud­den­ly emp­ty. He hadn’t done it. His nerve had failed him. Black was go­ing to be hand­ed back to the De­men­tors.

Then Lupin spoke, in an odd voice, a voice that shook with some sup­pressed emo­tion. ‘Where is he, Sir­ius?’

Har­ry looked quick­ly at Lupin. He didn’t un­der­stand what Lupin meant. Who was Lupin talk­ing about? He turned to look at Black again.

Black’s face was quite ex­pres­sion­less. For a few sec­onds, he didn’t move at all. Then, very slow­ly, he raised his emp­ty hand, and point­ed straight at Ron. Mys­ti­fied, Har­ry glanced around at Ron, who looked be­wil­dered.

‘But then …’ Lupin mut­tered, star­ing at Black so in­tent­ly it seemed he was try­ing to read his mind, ‘… why hasn’t he shown him­self be­fore now? Un­less –’ Lupin’s eyes sud­den­ly widened, as though he was see­ing some­thing be­yond Black, some­thing none of the rest could see, ‘– un­less he was the one … un­less you switched … with­out telling me?’

Very slow­ly, his sunken gaze nev­er leav­ing Lupin’s face, Black nod­ded.

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin,’ Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed loud­ly, ‘what’s go­ing –?’

But he nev­er fin­ished the ques­tion, be­cause what he saw made his voice die in his throat. Lupin was low­er­ing his wand. Next mo­ment, he had walked to Black’s side, seized his hand, pulled him to his feet so that Crook­shanks fell to the floor, and em­braced Black like a broth­er.

Har­ry felt as though the bot­tom had dropped out of his stom­ach.

‘I DON’T BE­LIEVE IT!’ Hermione screamed.

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had raised her­self off the floor, and was point­ing at Lupin, wild-​eyed. ‘You – you –’

‘Hermione –’

‘–you and him!’

‘Hermione, calm down –’

‘I didn’t tell any­one!’ Hermione shrieked. ‘I’ve been cov­er­ing up for you –’

‘Hermione, lis­ten to me, please!’ Lupin shout­ed. ‘I can ex­plain –’

Har­ry could feel him­self shak­ing, not with fear, but with a fresh wave of fury.

‘I trust­ed you,’ he shout­ed at Lupin, his voice wa­ver­ing out of con­trol, ‘and all the time you’ve been his friend!’

‘You’re wrong,’ said Lupin. ‘I haven’t been Sir­ius’s friend for twelve years, but I am now … let me ex­plain …’

‘NO!’ Hermione screamed, ‘Har­ry, don’t trust him, he’s been help­ing Black get in­to the cas­tle, he wants you dead too – he’s a were­wolf!’

There was a ring­ing si­lence. Ev­ery­one’s eyes were now on Lupin, who looked re­mark­ably calm, though rather pale.

‘Not at all up to your usu­al stan­dard, Hermione,’ he said. ‘On­ly one out of three, I’m afraid. I have not been help­ing Sir­ius get in­to the cas­tle and I cer­tain­ly don’t want Har­ry dead …’ An odd shiv­er passed over his face. ‘But I won’t de­ny that I am a were­wolf.’

Ron made a valiant ef­fort to get up again, but fell back with a whim­per of pain. Lupin made to­wards him, look­ing con­cerned, but Ron gasped, ‘Get away from me, were­wolf!’

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an ob­vi­ous ef­fort, he turned to Hermione and said, ‘How long have you known?’

‘Ages,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘Since I did Pro­fes­sor Snape’s es­say …’

‘He’ll be de­light­ed,’ said Lupin cool­ly. ‘He set that es­say hop­ing some­one would re­alise what my symp­toms meant. Did you check the lu­nar chart and re­alise that I was al­ways ill at the full moon? Or did you re­alise that the Bog­gart changed in­to the moon when it saw me?’

‘Both,’ Hermione said qui­et­ly.

Lupin forced a laugh.

‘You’re the clever­est witch of your age I’ve ev­er met, Hermione.’

‘I’m not,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘If I’d been a bit clev­er­er, I’d have told ev­ery­one what you are!’

‘But they al­ready know,’ said Lupin. ‘At least, the staff do.’

‘Dum­ble­dore hired you when he knew you were a were­wolf?’ Ron gasped. ‘Is he mad?’

‘Some of the staff thought so,’ said Lupin. ‘He had to work very hard to con­vince cer­tain teach­ers that I’m trust­wor­thy –’

‘AND HE WAS WRONG!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘YOU’VE BEEN HELP­ING HIM ALL THE TIME!’ He was point­ing at Black, who had crossed to the four-​poster bed and sunk on­to it, his face hid­den in one shak­ing hand. Crook­shanks leapt up be­side him and stepped on­to his lap, purring. Ron edged away from both of them, drag­ging his leg.

‘I have not been help­ing Sir­ius,’ said Lupin. ‘If you’ll give me a chance, I’ll ex­plain. Look –’

He sep­arat­ed Har­ry, Ron and Hermione’s wands and threw each back to its own­er; Har­ry caught his, stunned.

‘There,’ said Lupin, stick­ing his own wand back in­to his belt. ‘You’re armed, we’re not. Now will you lis­ten?’

Har­ry didn’t know what to think. Was it a trick?

‘If you haven’t been help­ing him,’ he said, with a fu­ri­ous glance at Black, ‘how did you know he was here?’

‘The map,’ said Lupin. ‘The Ma­raud­er’s Map. I was in my of­fice ex­am­in­ing it –’

‘You know how to work it?’ Har­ry said sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘Of course I know how to work it,’ said Lupin, wav­ing his hand im­pa­tient­ly. ‘I helped write it. I’m Moony – that was my friends’ nick­name for me at school.’

‘You wrote –?’

‘The im­por­tant thing is, I was watch­ing it care­ful­ly this evening, be­cause I had an idea that you, Ron and Hermione might try and sneak out of the cas­tle to vis­it Ha­grid be­fore his Hip­pogriff was ex­ecut­ed. And I was right, wasn’t I?’

He had start­ed to pace up and down, look­ing at them. Lit­tle patch­es of dust rose at his feet.

‘You might have been wear­ing your fa­ther’s old Cloak, Har­ry –’

‘How d’you know about the Cloak?’

‘The num­ber of times I saw James dis­ap­pear­ing un­der it …’ said Lupin, wav­ing an im­pa­tient hand again. ‘The point is, even if you’re wear­ing an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak you show up on the Ma­raud­er’s Map. I watched you cross the grounds and en­ter Ha­grid’s hut. Twen­ty min­utes lat­er, you left Ha­grid, and set off back to­wards the cas­tle. But you were now ac­com­pa­nied by some­body else.’

‘What?’ said Har­ry. ‘No, we weren’t!’

‘I couldn’t be­lieve my eyes,’ said Lupin, still pac­ing, and ig­nor­ing Har­ry’s in­ter­rup­tion. ‘I thought the map must be mal­func­tion­ing. How could he be with you?’

‘No one was with us!’ said Har­ry.

‘And then I saw an­oth­er dot, mov­ing fast to­wards you, la­belled Sir­ius Black … I saw him col­lide with you, I watched as he pulled two of you in­to the Whomp­ing Wil­low –’

‘One of us!’ Ron said an­gri­ly.

‘No, Ron,’ said Lupin. ‘Two of you.’

He had stopped his pac­ing, his eyes mov­ing over Ron.

‘Do you think I could have a look at the rat?’ he said even­ly.

‘What?’ said Ron. ‘What’s Scab­bers got to do with it?’

‘Ev­ery­thing,’ said Lupin. ‘Could I see him, please?’

Ron hes­itat­ed, then put a hand in­side his robes. Scab­bers emerged, thrash­ing des­per­ate­ly; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him es­cap­ing. Crook­shanks stood up on Black’s lap and made a soft hiss­ing noise.

Lupin moved clos­er to Ron. He seemed to be hold­ing his breath as he gazed in­tent­ly at Scab­bers.

‘What?’ Ron said again, hold­ing Scab­bers close to him, look­ing scared. ‘What’s my rat got to do with any­thing?’

‘That’s not a rat,’ croaked Sir­ius Black sud­den­ly.

‘What d’you mean – of course he’s a rat –’

‘No, he’s not,’ said Lupin qui­et­ly. ‘He’s a wiz­ard.’

‘An An­ima­gus,’ said Black, ‘by the name of Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew.’





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs



It took a few sec­onds for the ab­sur­di­ty of this state­ment to sink in. Then Ron voiced what Har­ry was think­ing.

‘You’re both men­tal.’

‘Ridicu­lous!’ said Hermione faint­ly.

‘Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew’s dead!’ said Har­ry. ‘He killed him twelve years ago!’

He point­ed at Black, whose face twitched con­vul­sive­ly.

‘I meant to,’ he growled, his yel­low teeth bared, ‘but lit­tle Pe­ter got the bet­ter of me … not this time, though!’

And Crook­shanks was thrown to the floor as Black lunged at Scab­bers; Ron yelled with pain as Black’s weight fell on his bro­ken leg.

‘Sir­ius, NO!’ Lupin yelled, launch­ing him­self for­wards and drag­ging Black away from Ron again, ‘WAIT! You can’t do it just like that – they need to un­der­stand – we’ve got to ex­plain –’

‘We can ex­plain af­ter­wards!’ snarled Black, try­ing to throw Lupin off, one hand still claw­ing the air as it tried to reach Scab­bers, who was squeal­ing like a piglet, scratch­ing Ron’s face and neck as he tried to es­cape.

‘They’ve – got – a – right – to – know – ev­ery­thing!’ Lupin pant­ed, still try­ing to re­strain Black. ‘Ron’s kept him as a pet! There are parts of it even I don’t un­der­stand! And Har­ry – you owe Har­ry the truth, Sir­ius!’

Black stopped strug­gling, though his hol­lowed eyes were still fixed on Scab­bers, who was clamped tight­ly un­der Ron’s bit­ten, scratched and bleed­ing hands.

‘All right, then,’ Black said, with­out tak­ing his eyes off the rat. ‘Tell them what­ev­er you like. But make it quick, Re­mus. I want to com­mit the mur­der I was im­pris­oned for …’

‘You’re nut­ters, both of you,’ said Ron shak­ily, look­ing round at Har­ry and Hermione for sup­port. ‘I’ve had enough of this. I’m off.’

He tried to heave him­self up on his good leg, but Lupin raised his wand again, point­ing it at Scab­bers.

‘You’re go­ing to hear me out, Ron,’ he said qui­et­ly. ‘Just keep a tight hold on Pe­ter while you lis­ten.’

‘HE’S NOT PE­TER, HE’S SCAB­BERS!’ Ron yelled, try­ing to force the rat back in­to his front pock­et, but Scab­bers was fight­ing too hard; Ron swayed and over­bal­anced, and Har­ry caught him and pushed him back down to the bed. Then, ig­nor­ing Black, Har­ry turned to Lupin.

‘There were wit­ness­es who saw Pet­ti­grew die,’ he said. ‘A whole street full of them …’

‘They didn’t see what they thought they saw!’ said Black sav­age­ly, still watch­ing Scab­bers strug­gling in Ron’s hands.

‘Ev­ery­one thought Sir­ius killed Pe­ter,’ said Lupin, nod­ding. ‘I be­lieved it my­self – un­til I saw the map tonight. Be­cause the Ma­raud­er’s Map nev­er lies … Pe­ter’s alive. Ron’s hold­ing him, Har­ry.’

Har­ry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met they agreed, silent­ly: Black and Lupin were both out of their minds. Their sto­ry made no sense what­so­ev­er. How could Scab­bers be Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew? Azk­aban must have un­hinged Black af­ter all – but why was Lupin play­ing along with him?

Then Hermione spoke, in a trem­bling, would-​be calm sort of voice, as though try­ing to will Pro­fes­sor Lupin to talk sen­si­bly.

‘But Pro­fes­sor Lupin … Scab­bers can’t be Pet­ti­grew … it just can’t be true, you know it can’t …’

‘Why can’t it be true?’ Lupin said calm­ly, as though they were in class, and Hermione had sim­ply spot­ted a prob­lem in an ex­per­iment with Grindy­lows.

‘Be­cause … be­cause peo­ple would know if Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew had been an An­ima­gus. We did An­ima­gi in class with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. And I looked them up when I did my home­work – the Min­istry keeps tabs on witch­es and wiz­ards who can be­come an­imals; there’s a reg­is­ter show­ing what an­imal they be­come, and their mark­ings and things … and I went and looked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall up on the reg­is­ter, and there have on­ly been sev­en An­ima­gi this cen­tu­ry, and Pet­ti­grew’s name wasn’t on the list –’

Har­ry bare­ly had time to mar­vel in­ward­ly at the ef­fort Hermione put in­to her home­work, when Lupin start­ed to laugh.

‘Right again, Hermione!’ he said. ‘But the Min­istry nev­er knew that there used to be three un­reg­is­tered An­ima­gi run­ning around Hog­warts.’

‘If you’re go­ing to tell them the sto­ry, get a move on, Re­mus,’ snarled Black, who was still watch­ing Scab­bers’s ev­ery des­per­ate move. ‘I’ve wait­ed twelve years, I’m not go­ing to wait much longer.’

‘All right … but you’ll need to help me, Sir­ius,’ said Lupin, ‘I on­ly know how it be­gan …’

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak be­hind him. The bed­room door had opened of its own ac­cord. All five of them stared at it. Then Lupin strode to­wards it and looked out in­to the land­ing.

‘No one there …’

‘This place is haunt­ed!’ said Ron.

‘It’s not,’ said Lupin, still look­ing at the door in a puz­zled way. ‘The Shriek­ing Shack was nev­er haunt­ed … the screams and howls the vil­lagers used to hear were made by me.’

He pushed his grey­ing hair out of his eyes, thought for a mo­ment, then said, ‘That’s where all of this starts – with my be­com­ing a were­wolf. None of this could have hap­pened if I hadn’t been bit­ten … and if I hadn’t been so fool­hardy …’

He looked sober and tired. Ron start­ed to in­ter­rupt, but Hermione said, ‘Shh!’ She was watch­ing Lupin very in­tent­ly.

‘I was a very small boy when I re­ceived the bite. My par­ents tried ev­ery­thing, but in those days there was no cure. The Po­tion that Pro­fes­sor Snape has been mak­ing for me is a very re­cent dis­cov­ery. It makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week pre­ced­ing the full moon, I keep my mind when I trans­form … I am able to curl up in my of­fice, a harm­less wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.

‘Be­fore the Wolfs­bane Po­tion was dis­cov­ered, how­ev­er, I be­came a ful­ly fledged mon­ster once a month. It seemed im­pos­si­ble that I would be able to come to Hog­warts. Oth­er par­ents weren’t like­ly to want their chil­dren ex­posed to me.

‘But then Dum­ble­dore be­came Head­mas­ter, and he was sym­pa­thet­ic. He said that, as long as we took cer­tain pre­cau­tions, there was no rea­son I shouldn’t come to school …’ Lupin sighed, and looked di­rect­ly at Har­ry. ‘I told you, months ago, that the Whomp­ing Wil­low was plant­ed the year I came to Hog­warts. The truth is that it was plant­ed be­cause I had come to Hog­warts. This house –’ Lupin looked mis­er­ably around the room, ‘– the tun­nel that leads to it – they were built for my use. Once a month, I was smug­gled out of the cas­tle, in­to this place, to trans­form. The tree was placed at the tun­nel mouth to stop any­one com­ing across me while I was dan­ger­ous.’

Har­ry couldn’t see where this sto­ry was go­ing, but he was lis­ten­ing rapt­ly all the same. The on­ly sound apart from Lupin’s voice was Scab­bers’s fright­ened squeak­ing.

‘My trans­for­ma­tions in those days were – were ter­ri­ble. It is very painful to turn in­to a were­wolf. I was sep­arat­ed from hu­mans to bite, so I bit and scratched my­self in­stead. The vil­lagers heard the noise and the scream­ing and thought they were hear­ing par­tic­ular­ly vi­olent spir­its. Dum­ble­dore en­cour­aged the ru­mour … even now, when the house has been silent for years, the vil­lagers don’t dare ap­proach it …

‘But apart from my trans­for­ma­tions, I was hap­pi­er than I had ev­er been in my life. For the first time ev­er, I had friends, three great friends. Sir­ius Black … Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew … and, of course, your fa­ther, Har­ry – James Pot­ter.

‘Now, my three friends could hard­ly fail to no­tice that I dis­ap­peared once a month. I made up all sorts of sto­ries. I told them my moth­er was ill, and that I had to go home to see her … I was ter­ri­fied they would desert me the mo­ment they found out what I was. But of course, they, like you, Hermione, worked out the truth …

‘And they didn’t desert me at all. In­stead they did some­thing for me that would make my trans­for­ma­tions not on­ly bear­able, but the best times of my life. They be­came An­ima­gi.’

‘My dad, too?’ said Har­ry, as­tound­ed.

‘Yes, in­deed,’ said Lupin. ‘It took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. Your fa­ther and Sir­ius here were the clever­est stu­dents in the school, and lucky they were, be­cause the An­ima­gus trans­for­ma­tion can go hor­ri­bly wrong – one rea­son the Min­istry keeps a close watch on those at­tempt­ing to do it. Pe­ter need­ed all the help he could get from James and Sir­ius. Fi­nal­ly, in our fifth year, they man­aged it. They could each turn in­to a dif­fer­ent an­imal at will.’

‘But how did that help you?’ said Hermione, sound­ing puz­zled.

‘They couldn’t keep me com­pa­ny as hu­mans, so they kept me com­pa­ny as an­imals,’ said Lupin. ‘A were­wolf is on­ly a dan­ger to peo­ple. They sneaked out of the cas­tle ev­ery month un­der James’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. They trans­formed … Pe­ter, as the small­est, could slip be­neath the Wil­low’s at­tack­ing branch­es and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then slip down the tun­nel and join me. Un­der their in­flu­ence, I be­came less dan­ger­ous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to be­come less so while I was with them.’

‘Hur­ry up, Re­mus,’ snarled Black, who was still watch­ing Scab­bers with a hor­ri­ble sort of hunger in his face.

‘I’m get­ting there, Sir­ius, I’m get­ting there … well, high­ly ex­cit­ing pos­si­bil­ities were open to us now we could all trans­form. Soon we were leav­ing the Shriek­ing Shack and roam­ing the school grounds and the vil­lage by night. Sir­ius and James trans­formed in­to such large an­imals, they were able to keep a were­wolf in check. I doubt whether any Hog­warts stu­dents ev­er found out more about the Hog­warts grounds and Hogsmeade than we did … And that’s how we came to write the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and sign it with our nick­names. Sir­ius is Pad­foot. Pe­ter is Worm­tail. James was Prongs.’

‘What sort of an­imal –?’ Har­ry be­gan, but Hermione cut across him.

‘That was still re­al­ly dan­ger­ous! Run­ning around in the dark with a were­wolf! What if you’d giv­en the oth­ers the slip, and bit­ten some­body?’

‘A thought that still haunts me,’ said Lupin heav­ily. ‘And there were near miss­es, many of them. We laughed about them af­ter­wards. We were young, thought­less – car­ried away with our own clev­er­ness.’

‘I some­times felt guilty about be­tray­ing Dum­ble­dore’s trust, of course … he had ad­mit­ted me to Hog­warts when no oth­er head­mas­ter would have done so, and he had no idea I was break­ing the rules he had set down for my own and oth­ers’ safe­ty. He nev­er knew I had led three fel­low stu­dents in­to be­com­ing An­ima­gi il­le­gal­ly. But I al­ways man­aged to for­get my guilty feel­ings ev­ery time we sat down to plan our next month’s ad­ven­ture. And I haven’t changed …’

Lupin’s face had hard­ened, and there was self-​di­gust in his voice. ‘All this year, I have been bat­tling with my­self, won­der­ing whether I should tell Dum­ble­dore that Sir­ius was an An­ima­gus. But I didn’t do it. Why? Be­cause I was too cow­ard­ly. It would have meant ad­mit­ting that I’d be­trayed his trust while I was at school, ad­mit­ting that I’d led oth­ers along with me … and Dum­ble­dore’s trust has meant ev­ery­thing to me. He let me in­to Hog­warts as a boy, and he gave me a job, when I have been shunned all my adult life, un­able to find paid work be­cause of what I am. And so I con­vinced my­self that Sir­ius was get­ting in­to the school us­ing dark arts he learned from Volde­mort, that be­ing an An­ima­gus had noth­ing to do with it … so, in a way, Snape’s been right about me all along.’

‘Snape?’ said Black harsh­ly, tak­ing his eyes off Scab­bers for the first time in min­utes and look­ing up at Lupin. ‘What’s Snape got to do with it?’

‘He’s here, Sir­ius,’ said Lupin heav­ily. ‘He’s teach­ing here as well.’ He looked up at Har­ry, Ron and Hermione.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my ap­point­ment to the De­fence Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling Dum­ble­dore all year that I am not to be trust­ed. He has his rea­sons … you see, Sir­ius here played a trick on him which near­ly killed him, a trick which in­volved me –’

Black made a de­ri­sive noise.

‘It served him right,’ he sneered. ‘Sneak­ing around, try­ing to find out what we were up to … hop­ing he could get us ex­pelled …’

‘Severus was very in­ter­est­ed in where I went ev­ery month,’ Lupin told Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘We were in the same year, you know, and we – er – didn’t like each oth­er very much. He es­pe­cial­ly dis­liked James. Jeal­ous, I think, of James’s tal­ent on the Quid­ditch pitch … any­way, Snape had seen me cross­ing the grounds with Madam Pom­frey one evening as she led me to­wards the Whomp­ing Wil­low to trans­form. Sir­ius thought it would be – er – amus­ing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the knot on the tree-​trunk with a long stick, and he’d be able to get in af­ter me. Well, of course, Snape tried it – if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a ful­ly grown were­wolf – but your fa­ther, who’d heard what Sir­ius had done, went af­ter Snape and pulled him back, at great risk to his life … Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the tun­nel. He was for­bid­den to tell any­body by Dum­ble­dore, but from that time on he knew what I was …’

‘So that’s why Snape doesn’t like you,’ said Har­ry slow­ly, ‘be­cause he thought you were in on the joke?’

‘That’s right,’ sneered a cold voice from the wall be­hind Lupin.

Severus Snape was pulling off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, his wand point­ing di­rect­ly at Lupin.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER NINETEEN


The Ser­vant of Lord Volde­mort



Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet. Har­ry jumped as though he’d re­ceived a huge elec­tric shock.

‘I found this at the base of the Whomp­ing Wil­low,’ said Snape, throw­ing the Cloak aside, care­ful to keep his wand point­ing di­rect­ly at Lupin’s chest. ‘Very use­ful, Pot­ter, I thank you …’

Snape was slight­ly breath­less, but his face was full of sup­pressed tri­umph. ‘You’re won­der­ing, per­haps, how I knew you were here?’ he said, his eyes glit­ter­ing. ‘I’ve just been to your of­fice, Lupin. You for­got to take your Po­tion tonight, so I took a gob­let­ful along. And very lucky I did … lucky for me, I mean. Ly­ing on your desk was a cer­tain map. One glance at it told me all I need­ed to know. I saw you run­ning along this pas­sage­way and out of sight.’

‘Severus –’ Lupin be­gan, but Snape over­rode him.

‘I’ve told the Head­mas­ter again and again that you’ve been help­ing your old friend Black in­to the cas­tle, Lupin, and here’s the proof. Not even I dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hide­out –’

‘Severus, you’re mak­ing a mis­take,’ said Lupin ur­gent­ly. ‘You haven’t heard ev­ery­thing – I can ex­plain – Sir­ius is not here to kill Har­ry –’

‘Two more for Azk­aban tonight,’ said Snape, his eyes now gleam­ing fa­nat­ical­ly. ‘I shall be in­ter­est­ed to see how Dum­ble­dore takes this … he was quite con­vinced you were harm­less, you know, Lupin … a tame were­wolf …’

‘You fool,’ said Lupin soft­ly. ‘Is a school­boy grudge worth putting an in­no­cent man back in­side Azk­aban?’

BANG! Thin, snake-​like cords burst from the end of Snape’s wand and twist­ed them­selves around Lupin’s mouth, wrists and an­kles; he over-​bal­anced and fell to the floor, un­able to move. With a roar of rage, Black start­ed to­wards Snape, but Snape point­ed his wand straight be­tween Black’s eyes.

‘Give me a rea­son,’ he whis­pered. ‘Give me a rea­son to do it, and I swear I will.’

Black stopped dead. It would have been im­pos­si­ble to say which face showed more ha­tred.

Har­ry stood there, paral­ysed, not know­ing what to do or who to be­lieve. He glanced around at Ron and Hermione. Ron looked just as con­fused as he did, still fight­ing to keep hold of the strug­gling Scab­bers. Hermione, how­ev­er, took an un­cer­tain step to­wards Snape and said, in a very breath­less voice, ‘Pro­fes­sor Snape – it – it wouldn’t hurt to hear what they’ve got to say, w-​would it?’

‘Miss Granger, you are al­ready fac­ing sus­pen­sion from this school,’ Snape spat. ‘You, Pot­ter and Weasley are out of bounds, in the com­pa­ny of a con­vict­ed mur­der­er and a were­wolf. For once in your life, hold your tongue.’

‘But if – if there was a mis­take –’

‘KEEP QUI­ET, YOU STUPID GIRL!’ Snape shout­ed, look­ing sud­den­ly quite de­ranged. ‘DON’T TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON’T UN­DER­STAND!’ A few sparks shot out of the end of his wand, which was still point­ing at Black’s face. Hermione fell silent.

‘Vengeance is very sweet,’ Snape breathed at Black. ‘How I hoped I would be the one to catch you …’

‘The joke’s on you again, Severus,’ snarled Black. ‘As long as this boy brings his rat up to the cas­tle –’ he jerked his head at Ron, ‘– I’ll come qui­et­ly …’

‘Up to the cas­tle?’ said Snape silk­ily. ‘I don’t think we need to go that far. All I have to do is call the De­men­tors once we get out of the Wil­low. They’ll be very pleased to see you, Black … pleased enough to give you a lit­tle kiss, I dare­say …’

What lit­tle colour there was in Black’s face left it.

‘You – you’ve got to hear me out,’ he croaked. ‘The rat – look at the rat –’

But there was a mad glint in Snape’s eye that Har­ry had nev­er seen be­fore. He seemed be­yond rea­son.

‘Come on, all of you,’ he said. He clicked his fin­gers, and the ends of the cords that bound Lupin flew to his hands. ‘I’ll drag the were­wolf. Per­haps the De­men­tors will have a kiss for him, too –’

Be­fore he knew what he was do­ing, Har­ry had crossed the room in three strides, and blocked the door.

‘Get out of the way, Pot­ter, you’re in enough trou­ble al­ready,’ snarled Snape. ‘If I hadn’t been here to save your skin –’

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin could have killed me about a hun­dred times this year,’ Har­ry said. ‘I’ve been alone with him loads of times, hav­ing de­fence lessons against the De­men­tors. If he was help­ing Black, why didn’t he just fin­ish me off then?’

‘Don’t ask me to fath­om the way a were­wolf’s mind works,’ hissed Snape. ‘Get out of the way, Pot­ter.’

‘YOU’RE PA­THET­IC!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘JUST BE­CAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SCHOOL YOU WON’T EVEN LIS­TEN –’

‘SI­LENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPO­KEN TO LIKE THAT!’ Snape shrieked, look­ing mad­der than ev­er. ‘Like fa­ther, like son, Pot­ter! I have just saved your neck, you should be thank­ing me on bend­ed knee! You would have been well served if he’d killed you! You’d have died like your fa­ther, too ar­ro­gant to be­lieve you might be mis­tak­en in Black – now get out of the way, or I will make you, GET OUT OF THE WAY, POT­TER!’

Har­ry made up his mind in a split sec­ond. Be­fore Snape could take even one step to­wards him, he had raised his wand.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ he yelled – ex­cept that his wasn’t the on­ly voice that shout­ed. There was a blast that made the door rat­tle on its hinges; Snape was lift­ed off his feet and slammed in­to the wall, then slid down it to the floor, a trick­le of blood ooz­ing from un­der his hair. He had been knocked out.

Har­ry looked around. Both Ron and Hermione had tried to dis­arm Snape at ex­act­ly the same mo­ment. Snape’s wand soared in a high arc and land­ed on the bed next to Crook­shanks.

‘You shouldn’t have done that,’ said Black, look­ing at Har­ry. ‘You should have left him to me …’

Har­ry avoid­ed Black’s eyes. He wasn’t sure, even now, that he’d done the right thing.

‘We at­tacked a teach­er … we at­tacked a teach­er …’ Hermione whim­pered, star­ing at the life­less Snape with fright­ened eyes. ‘Oh, we’re go­ing to be in so much trou­ble –’

Lupin was strug­gling against his bonds. Black bent down quick­ly and un­tied him. Lupin straight­ened up, rub­bing his arms where the ropes had cut in­to them.

‘Thank you, Har­ry,’ he said.

‘I’m still not say­ing I be­lieve you,’ Har­ry re­tort­ed.

‘Then it’s time we of­fered you some proof,’ said Black. ‘You, boy – give me Pe­ter. Now.’

Ron clutched Scab­bers clos­er to his chest.

‘Come off it,’ he said weak­ly. ‘Are you try­ing to say you broke out of Azk­aban just to get your hands on Scab­bers? I mean …’ he looked up at Har­ry and Hermione for sup­port. ‘OK, say Pet­ti­grew could turn in­to a rat – there are mil­lions of rats – how’s he sup­posed to know which one he’s af­ter if he was locked up in Azk­aban?’

‘You know, Sir­ius, that’s a fair ques­tion,’ said Lupin, turn­ing to Black and frown­ing slight­ly. ‘How did you find out where he was?’

Black put one of his claw-​like hands in­side his robes and took out a crum­pled piece of pa­per, which he smoothed flat, and held out to show the oth­ers.

It was the pho­to­graph of Ron and his fam­ily that had ap­peared in the Dai­ly Prophet the pre­vi­ous sum­mer, and there, on Ron’s shoul­der, was Scab­bers.

‘How did you get this?’ Lupin asked Black, thun­der­struck.

‘Fudge,’ said Black. ‘When he came to in­spect Azk­aban last year, he gave me his pa­per. And there was Pe­ter, on the front page … on this boy’s shoul­der … I knew him at once … how many times had I seen him trans­form? And the cap­tion said the boy would be go­ing back to Hog­warts … to where Har­ry was …’

‘My God,’ said Lupin soft­ly, star­ing from Scab­bers to the pic­ture in the pa­per and back again. ‘His front paw …’

‘What about it?’ said Ron de­fi­ant­ly.

‘He’s got a toe miss­ing,’ said Black.

‘Of course,’ Lupin breathed, ‘so sim­ple … so bril­liant … He cut it off him­self?’

‘Just be­fore he trans­formed,’ said Black. ‘When I cor­nered him, he yelled for the whole street to hear that I’d be­trayed Lily and James. Then, be­fore I could curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand be­hind his back, killed ev­ery­one with­in twen­ty feet of him­self – and sped down in­to the sew­er with the oth­er rats …’

‘Didn’t you ev­er hear, Ron?’ said Lupin. ‘The biggest bit of Pe­ter they found was his fin­ger.’

‘Look, Scab­bers prob­ably had a fight with an­oth­er rat or some­thing! He’s been in my fam­ily for ages, right –’

‘Twelve years, in fact,’ said Lupin. ‘Didn’t you ev­er won­der why he was liv­ing so long?’

‘We – we’ve been tak­ing good care of him!’ said Ron.

‘Not look­ing too good at the mo­ment, though, is he?’ said Lupin. ‘I’d guess he’s been los­ing weight ev­er since he heard Sir­ius was on the loose again …’

‘He’s been scared of that mad cat!’ said Ron, nod­ding to­wards Crook­shanks, who was still purring on the bed.

But that wasn’t right, Har­ry thought sud­den­ly … Scab­bers had been look­ing ill be­fore he met Crook­shanks … ev­er since Ron’s re­turn from Egypt … since the time when Black had es­caped …

‘This cat isn’t mad,’ said Black hoarse­ly. He reached out a bony hand and stroked Crook­shanks’s fluffy head. ‘He’s the most in­tel­li­gent of his kind I’ve ev­er met. He recog­nised Pe­ter for what he was straight away. And when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a while be­fore he trust­ed me. Fi­nal­ly, I man­aged to com­mu­ni­cate to him what I was af­ter, and he’s been help­ing me …’

‘What do you mean?’ breathed Hermione.

‘He tried to bring Pe­ter to me, but couldn’t … so he stole the pass­words in­to Gryffind­or Tow­er for me … As I un­der­stand it, he took them from a boy’s bed­side ta­ble …’

Har­ry’s brain seemed to be sag­ging un­der the weight of what he was hear­ing. It was ab­surd … and yet …

‘But Pe­ter got wind of what was go­ing on and ran for it … this cat – Crook­shanks, did you call him? – told me Pe­ter had left blood on the sheets … I sup­pose he bit him­self … well, fak­ing his own death had worked once …’

These words jolt­ed Har­ry to his sens­es.

‘And why did he fake his death?’ he said fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘Be­cause he knew you were about to kill him like you killed my par­ents!’

‘No,’ said Lupin. ‘Har­ry –’

‘And now you’ve come to fin­ish him off!’

‘Yes, I have,’ said Black, with an evil look at Scab­bers.

‘Then I should’ve let Snape take you!’ Har­ry shout­ed.

‘Har­ry,’ said Lupin hur­ried­ly, ‘don’t you see? All this time we’ve thought Sir­ius be­trayed your par­ents, and Pe­ter tracked him down – but it was the oth­er way around, don’t you see? Pe­ter be­trayed your moth­er and fa­ther – Sir­ius tracked Pe­ter down –’

‘THAT’S NOT TRUE!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘HE WAS THEIR SE­CRET-​KEEP­ER! HE SAID SO BE­FORE YOU TURNED UP, HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!’

He was point­ing at Black, who shook his head slow­ly; the sunken eyes were sud­den­ly over-​bright.

‘Har­ry … I as good as killed them,’ he croaked. ‘I per­suad­ed Lily and James to change to Pe­ter at the last mo­ment, per­suad­ed them to use him as Se­cret-​Keep­er in­stead of me … I’m to blame, I know it … the night they died, I’d ar­ranged to check on Pe­ter, make sure he was still safe, but when I ar­rived at his hid­ing place, he’d gone. Yet there was no sign of a strug­gle. It didn’t feel right. I was scared. I set out for your par­ents’ house straight away. And when I saw their house, de­stroyed, and their bod­ies – I re­alised what Pe­ter must have done. What I’d done.’

His voice broke. He turned away.

‘Enough of this,’ said Lupin, and there was a steely note in his voice Har­ry had nev­er heard be­fore. ‘There’s one cer­tain way to prove what re­al­ly hap­pened. Ron, give me that rat.’

‘What are you go­ing to do with him if I give him to you?’ Ron asked Lupin tense­ly.

‘Force him to show him­self,’ said Lupin. ‘If he re­al­ly is a rat, it won’t hurt him.’

Ron hes­itat­ed, then at long last held out Scab­bers and Lupin took him. Scab­bers be­gan to squeak with­out stop­ping, twist­ing and turn­ing, his tiny black eyes bulging in his head.

‘Ready, Sir­ius?’ said Lupin.

Black had al­ready re­trieved Snape’s wand from the bed. He ap­proached Lupin and the strug­gling rat, and his wet eyes sud­den­ly seemed to be burn­ing in his face.

‘To­geth­er?’ he said qui­et­ly.

‘I think so,’ said Lupin, hold­ing Scab­bers tight­ly in one hand and his wand in the oth­er. ‘On the count of three. One – two – THREE!’

A flash of blue-​white light erupt­ed from both wands; for a mo­ment, Scab­bers was frozen in mid-​air, his small black form twist­ing mad­ly – Ron yelled – the rat fell and hit the floor. There was an­oth­er blind­ing flash of light and then –

It was like watch­ing a speed­ed-​up film of a grow­ing tree. A head was shoot­ing up­wards from the ground; limbs were sprout­ing; next mo­ment, a man was stand­ing where Scab­bers had been, cring­ing and wring­ing his hands. Crook­shanks was spit­ting and snarling on the bed, the hair on his back stand­ing up.

He was a very short man, hard­ly taller than Har­ry and Hermione. His thin, colour­less hair was un­kempt and there was a large bald patch on top. He had the shrunk­en ap­pear­ance of a plump man who had lost a lot of weight in a short time. His skin looked grub­by, al­most like Scab­bers’s fur, and some­thing of the rat lin­gered around his point­ed nose, his very small, wa­tery eyes. He looked around at them all, his breath­ing fast and shal­low. Har­ry saw his eyes dart to the door and back again.

‘Well, hel­lo, Pe­ter,’ said Lupin pleas­ant­ly, as though rats fre­quent­ly erupt­ed in­to old school­friends around him. ‘Long time, no see.’

‘S-​Sir­ius … R-​Re­mus …’ Even Pet­ti­grew’s voice was squeaky. Again, his eyes dart­ed to­wards the door. ‘My friends … my old friends …’

Black’s wand arm rose, but Lupin seized him around the wrist, gave him a warn­ing look, then turned again to Pet­ti­grew, his voice light and ca­su­al.

‘We’ve been hav­ing a lit­tle chat, Pe­ter, about what hap­pened the night Lily and James died. You might have missed the fin­er points while you were squeak­ing around down there on the bed –’

‘Re­mus,’ gasped Pet­ti­grew, and Har­ry could see beads of sweat break­ing out over his pasty face, ‘you don’t be­lieve him, do you … He tried to kill me, Re­mus …’

‘So we’ve heard,’ said Lupin, more cold­ly. ‘I’d like to clear up one or two lit­tle mat­ters with you, Pe­ter, if you’d be so –’

‘He’s come to try and kill me again!’ Pet­ti­grew shrieked sud­den­ly, point­ing at Black, and Har­ry saw that he used his mid­dle fin­ger, be­cause his in­dex was miss­ing. ‘He killed Lily and James and now he’s go­ing to kill me, too … you’ve got to help me, Re­mus …’

Black’s face looked more skull-​like than ev­er as he stared at Pet­ti­grew with his fath­om­less eyes.

‘No one’s go­ing to try and kill you un­til we’ve sort­ed a few things out,’ said Lupin.

‘Sort­ed things out?’ squealed Pet­ti­grew, look­ing wild­ly about him once more, eyes tak­ing in the board­ed win­dows and, again, the on­ly door. ‘I knew he’d come af­ter me! I knew he’d be back for me! I’ve been wait­ing for this for twelve years!’

‘You knew Sir­ius was go­ing to break out of Azk­aban?’ said Lupin, his brow fur­rowed. ‘When no­body has ev­er done it be­fore?’

‘He’s got dark pow­ers the rest of us can on­ly dream of!’ Pet­ti­grew shout­ed shril­ly. ‘How else did he get out of there? I sup­pose He Who Must Not Be Named taught him a few tricks!’

Black start­ed to laugh, a hor­ri­ble, mirth­less laugh that filled the whole room.

‘Volde­mort, teach me tricks?’ he said.

Pet­ti­grew flinched as though Black had bran­dished a whip at him.

‘What, scared to hear your old mas­ter’s name?’ said Black. ‘I don’t blame you, Pe­ter. His lot aren’t very hap­py with you, are they?’

‘Don’t know – what you mean, Sir­ius –’ mut­tered Pet­ti­grew, his breath­ing faster than ev­er. His whole face was shin­ing with sweat now.

‘You haven’t been hid­ing from me for twelve years,’ said Black. ‘You’ve been hid­ing from Volde­mort’s old sup­port­ers. I heard things in Azk­aban, Pe­ter … they all think you’re dead, or you’d have to an­swer to them … I’ve heard them scream­ing all sorts of things in their sleep. Sounds like they think the dou­ble-​cross­er dou­ble-​crossed them. Volde­mort went to the Pot­ters’ on your in­for­ma­tion … and Volde­mort met his down­fall there. And not all Volde­mort’s sup­port­ers end­ed up in Azk­aban, did they? There are still plen­ty out here, bid­ing their time, pre­tend­ing they’ve seen the er­ror of their ways … If they ev­er got wind that you were still alive, Pe­ter –’

‘Don’t know … what you’re talk­ing about …’ said Pet­ti­grew again, more shril­ly than ev­er. He wiped his face on his sleeve and looked up at Lupin. ‘You don’t be­lieve this – this mad­ness, Re­mus –’

‘I must ad­mit, Pe­ter, I have dif­fi­cul­ty in un­der­stand­ing why an in­no­cent man would want to spend twelve years as a rat,’ said Lupin even­ly.

‘In­no­cent, but scared!’ squealed Pet­ti­grew. ‘If Volde­mort’s sup­port­ers were af­ter me, it was be­cause I put one of their best men in Azk­aban – the spy, Sir­ius Black!’

Black’s face con­tort­ed.

‘How dare you,’ he growled, sound­ing sud­den­ly like the bear-​sized dog he had been. ‘I, a spy for Volde­mort? When did I ev­er sneak around peo­ple who were stronger and more pow­er­ful than my­self? But you, Pe­ter – I’ll nev­er un­der­stand why I didn’t see you were the spy from the start. You al­ways liked big friends who’d look af­ter you, didn’t you? It used to be us … me and Re­mus … and James …’

Pet­ti­grew wiped his face again; he was al­most pant­ing for breath.

‘Me, a spy … must be out of your mind … nev­er … don’t know how you can say such a –’

‘Lily and James on­ly made you Se­cret-​Keep­er be­cause I sug­gest­ed it,’ Black hissed, so ven­omous­ly that Pet­ti­grew took a step back­wards. ‘I thought it was the per­fect plan … a bluff … Volde­mort would be sure to come af­ter me, would nev­er dream they’d use a weak, tal­ent­less thing like you … it must have been the finest mo­ment of your mis­er­able life, telling Volde­mort you could hand him the Pot­ters.’

Pet­ti­grew was mut­ter­ing dis­tract­ed­ly; Har­ry caught words like ‘far-​fetched’ and ‘lu­na­cy’, but he couldn’t help pay­ing more at­ten­tion to the ashen colour of Pet­ti­grew’s face, and the way his eyes con­tin­ued to dart to­wards the win­dows and door.

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin?’ said Hermione timid­ly. ‘Can – can I say some­thing?’

‘Cer­tain­ly, Hermione,’ said Lupin cour­te­ous­ly.

‘Well – Scab­bers – I mean, this – this man – he’s been sleep­ing in Har­ry’s dor­mi­to­ry for three years. If he’s work­ing for You Know Who, how come he nev­er tried to hurt Har­ry be­fore now?’

‘There!’ said Pet­ti­grew shril­ly, point­ing at Hermione with his maimed hand. ‘Thank you! You see, Re­mus? I have nev­er hurt a hair of Har­ry’s head! Why should I?’

‘I’ll tell you why,’ said Black. ‘Be­cause you nev­er did any­thing for any­one un­less you could see what was in it for you. Volde­mort’s been in hid­ing for twelve years, they say he’s half-​dead. You weren’t about to com­mit mur­der right un­der Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s nose, for a wreck of a wiz­ard who’d lost all his pow­er, were you? You’d want to be quite sure he was the biggest bul­ly in the play­ground be­fore you went back to him, wouldn’t you? Why else did you find a wiz­ard fam­ily to take you in? Keep­ing an ear out for news, weren’t you, Pe­ter? Just in case your old pro­tec­tor re­gained strength, and it was safe to re­join him …’

Pet­ti­grew opened his mouth and closed it sev­er­al times. He seemed to have lost the abil­ity to talk.

‘Er – Mr Black – Sir­ius?’ said Hermione timid­ly.

Black jumped at be­ing ad­dressed like this and stared at Hermione as though be­ing spo­ken to po­lite­ly was some­thing he’d long for­got­ten.

‘If you don’t mind me ask­ing, how – how did you get out of Azk­aban, if you didn’t use Dark Mag­ic?’

‘Thank you!’ gasped Pet­ti­grew, nod­ding fran­ti­cal­ly at her. ‘Ex­act­ly! Pre­cise­ly what I –’

But Lupin si­lenced him with a look. Black was frown­ing slight­ly at Hermione, but not as though he was an­noyed with her. He seemed to be pon­der­ing his an­swer.

‘I don’t know how I did it,’ he said slow­ly. ‘I think the on­ly rea­son I nev­er lost my mind is that I knew I was in­no­cent. That wasn’t a hap­py thought, so the De­men­tors couldn’t suck it out of me … but it kept me sane and know­ing who I am … helped me keep my pow­ers … so when it all be­came … too much … I could trans­form in my cell … be­come a dog. De­men­tors can’t see, you know …’ He swal­lowed. They feel their way to­wards peo­ple by sens­ing their emo­tions … they could tell that my feel­ings were less – less hu­man, less com­plex when I was a dog … but they thought, of course, that I was los­ing my mind like ev­ery­one else in there, so it didn’t trou­ble them. But I was weak, very weak, and I had no hope of driv­ing them away from me with­out a wand …

‘But then I saw Pe­ter in that pic­ture … I re­alised he was at Hog­warts with Har­ry … per­fect­ly po­si­tioned to act, if one hint reached his ears that the Dark Side was gath­er­ing strength again …’

Pet­ti­grew was shak­ing his head, mouthing noise­less­ly, but star­ing all the while at Black as though hyp­no­tised.

‘… ready to strike the mo­ment he could be sure of al­lies … to de­liv­er the last Pot­ter to them. If he gave them Har­ry, who’d dare say he’d be­trayed Lord Volde­mort? He’d be wel­comed back with hon­ours …

‘So you see, I had to do some­thing. I was the on­ly one who knew Pe­ter was still alive …’

Har­ry re­mem­bered what Mr Weasley had told Mrs Weasley. ‘The guards say he’s been talk­ing in his sleep … al­ways the same words …‘He’s at Hog­warts’.’

‘It was as if some­one had lit a fire in my head, and the De­men­tors couldn’t de­stroy it … it wasn’t a hap­py feel­ing … it was an ob­ses­sion … but it gave me strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night when they opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as a dog … it’s so much hard­er for them to sense an­imal emo­tions that they were con­fused … I was thin, very thin … thin enough to slip through the bars … I swam as a dog back to the main­land … I jour­neyed north and slipped in­to the Hog­warts grounds as a dog … I’ve been liv­ing in the For­est ev­er since … ex­cept when I come to watch the Quid­ditch, of course … you fly as well as your fa­ther did, Har­ry …’

He looked at Har­ry, who did not look away.

‘Be­lieve me,’ croaked Black. ‘Be­lieve me. I nev­er be­trayed James and Lily. I would have died be­fore I be­trayed them.’

And at long last, Har­ry be­lieved him. Throat too tight to speak, he nod­ded.

‘No!’

Pet­ti­grew had fall­en to his knees as though Har­ry’s nod had been his own death sen­tence. He shuf­fled for­ward on his knees, grov­el­ling, his hands clasped in front of him as though pray­ing.

‘Sir­ius – it’s me … it’s Pe­ter … your friend … you wouldn’t …’

Black kicked out and Pet­ti­grew re­coiled.

‘There’s enough filth on my robes with­out you touch­ing them,’ said Black.

‘Re­mus!’ Pet­ti­grew squeaked, turn­ing to Lupin in­stead, writhing im­plor­ing­ly in front of him. ‘You don’t be­lieve this … Wouldn’t Sir­ius have told you they’d changed the plan?’

‘Not if he thought I was the spy, Pe­ter,’ said Lupin. ‘I as­sume that’s why you didn’t tell me, Sir­ius?’ he said ca­su­al­ly over Pet­ti­grew’s head.

‘For­give me, Re­mus,’ said Black.

‘Not at all, Pad­foot, old friend,’ said Lupin, who was now rolling up his sleeves. ‘And will you, in turn, for­give me for be­liev­ing you were the spy?’

‘Of course,’ said Black, and the ghost of a grin flit­ted across his gaunt face. He, too, be­gan rolling up his sleeves. ‘Shall we kill him to­geth­er?’

‘Yes, I think so,’ said Lupin grim­ly.

‘You wouldn’t … you won’t …’ gasped Pet­ti­grew. And he scram­bled around to Ron.

‘Ron … haven’t I been a good friend … a good pet? You won’t let them kill me, Ron, will you … you’re on my side, aren’t you?’

But Ron was star­ing at Pet­ti­grew with the ut­most re­vul­sion.

‘I let you sleep in my bed!’ he said.

‘Kind boy … kind mas­ter …’ Pet­ti­grew crawled to­wards Ron, ‘you won’t let them do it … I was your rat … I was a good pet …’

‘If you made a bet­ter rat than hu­man, it’s not much to boast about, Pe­ter,’ said Black harsh­ly. Ron, go­ing still paler with pain, wrenched his bro­ken leg out of Pet­ti­grew’s reach. Pet­ti­grew turned on his knees, stag­gered for­wards and seized the hem of Hermione’s robes.

‘Sweet girl … clever girl … you – you won’t let them … help me …’

Hermione pulled her robes out of Pet­ti­grew’s clutch­ing hands and backed away against the wall, look­ing hor­ri­fied.

Pet­ti­grew knelt, trem­bling un­con­trol­lably, and turned his head slow­ly to­wards Har­ry.

‘Har­ry … Har­ry … you look just like your fa­ther … just like him …’

‘HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HAR­RY?’ roared Black. ‘HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?’

‘Har­ry’ whis­pered Pet­ti­grew, shuf­fling to­wards him, hands out­stretched, ‘Har­ry, James wouldn’t have want­ed me killed … James would have un­der­stood, Har­ry … he would have shown me mer­cy …’

Both Black and Lupin strode for­wards, seized Pet­ti­grew’s shoul­ders and threw him back­wards on­to the floor. He sat there, twitch­ing with ter­ror, star­ing up at them.

‘You sold Lily and James to Volde­mort,’ said Black, who was shak­ing too. ‘Do you de­ny it?’

Pet­ti­grew burst in­to tears. It was hor­ri­ble to watch: he looked like an over­sized, bald­ing ba­by, cow­er­ing on the floor.

‘Sir­ius, Sir­ius, what could I have done? The Dark Lord … you have no idea … he has weapons you can’t imag­ine … I was scared, Sir­ius, I was nev­er brave like you and Re­mus and James. I nev­er meant it to hap­pen … He Who Must Not Be Named forced me –’

‘DON’T LIE!’ bel­lowed Black. ‘YOU’D BEEN PASS­ING IN­FOR­MA­TION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BE­FORE LILY AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!’

‘He – he was tak­ing over ev­ery­where!’ gasped Pet­ti­grew. ‘Wh-​what was there to be gained by re­fus­ing him?’

‘What was there to be gained by fight­ing the most evil wiz­ard who has ev­er ex­ist­ed?’ said Black, with a ter­ri­ble fury in his face. ‘On­ly in­no­cent lives, Pe­ter!’

‘You don’t un­der­stand!’ whined Pet­ti­grew. ‘He would have killed me, Sir­ius!’

‘THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!’ roared Black. ‘DIED RATHER THAN BE­TRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!’

Black and Lupin stood shoul­der to shoul­der, wands raised.

‘You should have re­alised,’ said Lupin qui­et­ly. ‘If Volde­mort didn’t kill you, we would. Good­bye, Pe­ter.’

Hermione cov­ered her face with her hands and turned to the wall.

‘NO!’ Har­ry yelled. He ran for­wards, plac­ing him­self in front of Pet­ti­grew, fac­ing the wands. ‘You can’t kill him,’ he said breath­less­ly. ‘You can’t.’

Black and Lupin both looked stag­gered.

‘Har­ry, this piece of ver­min is the rea­son you have no par­ents,’ Black snarled. ‘This cring­ing bit of filth would have seen you die, too, with­out turn­ing a hair. You heard him. His own stink­ing skin meant more to him than your whole fam­ily.’

‘I know,’ Har­ry pant­ed. ‘We’ll take him up to the cas­tle. We’ll hand him over to the De­men­tors. He can go to Azk­aban … just don’t kill him.’

‘Har­ry!’ gasped Pet­ti­grew, and he flung his arms around Har­ry’s knees. ‘You – thank you – it’s more than I de­serve – thank you –’

‘Get off me,’ Har­ry spat, throw­ing Pet­ti­grew’s hands off him in dis­gust. ‘I’m not do­ing this for you. I’m do­ing it be­cause I don’t reck­on my dad would’ve want­ed his best friends to be­come killers – just for you.’

No one moved or made a sound ex­cept Pet­ti­grew, whose breath was com­ing in wheezes as he clutched his chest. Black and Lupin were look­ing at each oth­er. Then, with one move­ment, they low­ered their wands.

‘You’re the on­ly per­son who has the right to de­cide, Har­ry,’ said Black. ‘But think … think what he did …’

‘He can go to Azk­aban,’ Har­ry re­peat­ed. ‘If any­one de­serves that place, he does …’

Pet­ti­grew was still wheez­ing be­hind him.

‘Very well,’ said Lupin. ‘Stand aside, Har­ry.’

Har­ry hes­itat­ed.

‘I’m go­ing to tie him up,’ said Lupin. ‘That’s all, I swear.’

Har­ry stepped out of the way. Thin cords shot from Lupin’s wand this time, and next mo­ment, Pet­ti­grew was wrig­gling on the floor, bound and gagged.

‘But if you trans­form, Pe­ter,’ growled Black, his own wand point­ing at Pet­ti­grew, too, ‘we will kill you. You agree, Har­ry?’

Har­ry looked down at the piti­ful fig­ure on the floor, and nod­ded so that Pet­ti­grew could see him.

‘Right,’ said Lupin, sud­den­ly busi­ness-​like. ‘Ron, I can’t mend bones near­ly as well as Madam Pom­frey, so I think it’s best if we just strap your leg up un­til we can get you to the hos­pi­tal wing.’

He hur­ried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron’s leg with his wand and mut­tered, ‘Fer­ula.’ Ban­dages spun up Ron’s leg, strap­ping it tight­ly to a splint. Lupin helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight gin­ger­ly on the leg and didn’t wince.

‘That’s bet­ter,’ he said. ‘Thanks.’

‘What about Pro­fes­sor Snape?’ said Hermione in a small voice, look­ing down at Snape’s prone fig­ure.

‘There’s noth­ing se­ri­ous­ly wrong with him,’ said Lupin, bend­ing over Snape and check­ing his pulse. ‘You were just a lit­tle – over-​en­thu­si­as­tic. Still out cold. Er – per­haps it will be best if we don’t re­vive him un­til we’re safe­ly back in the cas­tle. We can take him like this …’

He mut­tered, ‘Mo­bil­icor­pus.’ As though in­vis­ible strings were tied to Snape’s wrists, neck and knees, he was pulled in­to a stand­ing po­si­tion, head still lolling un­pleas­ant­ly, like a grotesque pup­pet. He hung a few inch­es above the ground, his limp feet dan­gling. Lupin picked up the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and tucked it safe­ly in­to his pock­et.

‘And two of us should be chained to this,’ said Black, nudg­ing Pet­ti­grew with his toe. ‘Just to make sure.’

‘I’ll do it,’ said Lupin.

‘And me,’ said Ron sav­age­ly, limp­ing for­wards.

Black con­jured heavy man­acles from thin air; soon Pet­ti­grew was up­right again, left arm chained to Lupin’s right, right arm to Ron’s left. Ron’s face was set. He seemed to have tak­en Scab­bers’s true iden­ti­ty as a per­son­al in­sult. Crook­shanks leapt light­ly off the bed and led the way out of the room, his bot­tle-​brush tail held jaun­ti­ly high.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TWENTY


The De­men­tors’ Kiss



Har­ry had nev­er been part of a stranger group. Crook­shanks led the way down the stairs; Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron went next, look­ing like con­tes­tants in a six-​legged race. Next came Pro­fes­sor Snape, drift­ing creep­ily along, his toes hit­ting each stair as they de­scend­ed, held up by his own wand, which was be­ing point­ed at him by Sir­ius. Har­ry and Hermione brought up the rear.

Get­ting back in­to the tun­nel was dif­fi­cult. Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron had to turn side­ways to man­age it; Lupin still had Pet­ti­grew cov­ered with his wand. Har­ry could see them edg­ing awk­ward­ly along the tun­nel in sin­gle file. Crook­shanks was still in the lead. Har­ry went right af­ter Sir­ius, who was still mak­ing Snape drift along ahead of them; he kept bump­ing his lolling head on the low ceil­ing. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion Sir­ius was mak­ing no ef­fort to pre­vent this.

‘You know what this means?’ Sir­ius said abrupt­ly to Har­ry, as they made their slow progress along the tun­nel. ‘Turn­ing Pet­ti­grew in?’

‘You’re free,’ said Har­ry.

‘Yes …’ said Sir­ius. ‘But I’m al­so – I don’t know if any­one ev­er told you – I’m your god­fa­ther.’

‘Yeah, I knew that,’ said Har­ry.

‘Well … your par­ents ap­point­ed me your guardian,’ said Sir­ius stiffly. ‘If any­thing hap­pened to them …’

Har­ry wait­ed. Did Sir­ius mean what he thought he meant?

‘I’ll un­der­stand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and un­cle,’ said Sir­ius. ‘But … well … think about it. Once my name’s cleared … if you want­ed a … a dif­fer­ent home …’

Some sort of ex­plo­sion took place in the pit of Har­ry’s stom­ach.

‘What – live with you?’ he said, ac­ci­den­tal­ly crack­ing his head on a bit of rock pro­trud­ing from the ceil­ing. ‘Leave the Durs­leys?’

‘Of course, I thought you wouldn’t want to,’ said Sir­ius quick­ly. ‘I un­der­stand. I just thought I’d –’

‘Are you mad?’ said Har­ry, his voice eas­ily as croaky as Sir­ius’. ‘Of course I want to leave the Durs­leys! Have you got a house? When can I move in?’

Sir­ius turned right around to look at him; Snape’s head was scrap­ing the ceil­ing but Sir­ius didn’t seem to care.

‘You want to?’ he said. ‘You mean it?’

‘Yeah, I mean it!’ said Har­ry.

Sir­ius’ gaunt face broke in­to the first true smile Har­ry had seen up­on it. The dif­fer­ence it made was startling, as though a per­son ten years younger was shin­ing through the starved mask; for a mo­ment, he was recog­nis­able as the man who had laughed at Har­ry’s par­ents’ wed­ding.

They did not speak again un­til they had reached the end of the tun­nel. Crook­shanks dart­ed up first; he had ev­ident­ly pressed his paw to the knot on the trunk, be­cause Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron clam­bered up­wards with­out any sound of sav­aging branch­es.

Sir­ius saw Snape up through the hole, then stood back for Har­ry and Hermione to pass. At last, all of them were out.

The grounds were very dark now, the on­ly light came from the dis­tant win­dows of the cas­tle. With­out a word, they set off. Pet­ti­grew was still wheez­ing and oc­ca­sion­al­ly whim­per­ing. Har­ry’s mind was buzzing. He was go­ing to leave the Durs­leys. He was go­ing to live with Sir­ius Black, his par­ents’ best friend … he felt dazed … What would hap­pen when he told the Durs­leys he was go­ing to live with the con­vict they’d seen on tele­vi­sion!

‘One wrong move, Pe­ter,’ said Lupin threat­en­ing­ly, ahead. His wand was still point­ed side­ways at Pet­ti­grew’s chest.

Silent­ly they tramped through the grounds, the cas­tle lights grow­ing slow­ly larg­er. Snape was still drift­ing weird­ly ahead of Sir­ius, his chin bump­ing on his chest. And then –

A cloud shift­ed. There were sud­den­ly dim shad­ows on the ground. Their par­ty was bathed in moon­light.

Snape col­lid­ed with Lupin, Pet­ti­grew and Ron, who had stopped abrupt­ly. Sir­ius froze. He flung out an arm to make Har­ry and Hermione stop.

Har­ry could see Lupin’s sil­hou­ette. He had gone rigid. Then his limbs be­gan to shake.

‘Oh my –’ Hermione gasped. ‘He didn’t take his Po­tion tonight! He’s not safe!’

‘Run,’ Sir­ius whis­pered. ‘Run! Now!’

But Har­ry couldn’t run. Ron was chained to Pet­ti­grew and Lupin. He leapt for­wards but Sir­ius caught him around the chest and threw him back.

‘Leave it to me – RUN!’

There was a ter­ri­ble snarling noise. Lupin’s head was length­en­ing. So was his body. His shoul­ders were hunch­ing. Hair was sprout­ing vis­ibly on his face and hands, which were curl­ing in­to clawed paws. Crook­shanks’s fur was on end again, he was back­ing away –

As the were­wolf reared, snap­ping its long jaws, Sir­ius dis­ap­peared from Har­ry’s side. He had trans­formed. The enor­mous, bear-​like dog bound­ed for­wards. As the were­wolf wrenched it­self free of the man­acle bind­ing it, the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it back­wards, away from Ron and Pet­ti­grew. They were locked, jaw to jaw, claws rip­ping at each oth­er –

Har­ry stood, trans­fixed by the sight; too in­tent up­on the bat­tle to no­tice any­thing else. It was Hermione’s scream that alert­ed him –

Pet­ti­grew had dived for Lupin’s dropped wand. Ron, un­steady on his ban­daged leg, fell. There was a bang, a burst of light – and Ron lay mo­tion­less on the ground. An­oth­er bang – Crook­shanks flew in­to the air and back to the earth in a heap.

‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’ Har­ry yelled, point­ing his own wand at Pet­ti­grew; Lupin’s wand flew high in­to the air and out of sight. ‘Stay where you are!’ Har­ry shout­ed, run­ning for­wards.

Too late. Pet­ti­grew had trans­formed. Har­ry saw his bald tail whip through the man­acle on Ron’s out­stretched arm, and heard a scur­ry­ing through the grass.

There was a howl and a rum­bling growl; Har­ry turned to see the were­wolf tak­ing flight; it was gal­lop­ing in­to the for­est –

‘Sir­ius, he’s gone, Pet­ti­grew trans­formed!’ Har­ry yelled.

Sir­ius was bleed­ing; there were gash­es across his muz­zle and back, but at Har­ry’s words he scram­bled up again, and in an in­stant, the sound of his paws was fad­ing to si­lence as he pound­ed away across the grounds.

Har­ry and Hermione dashed over to Ron.

‘What did he do to him?’ Hermione whis­pered. Ron’s eyes were on­ly half-​closed; his mouth hung open. He was def­inite­ly alive, they could hear him breath­ing, but he didn’t seem to recog­nise them.

‘I don’t know.’

Har­ry looked des­per­ate­ly around. Black and Lupin both gone … they had no one but Snape for com­pa­ny, still hang­ing, un­con­scious, in mid-​air.

‘We’d bet­ter get them up to the cas­tle and tell some­one,’ said Har­ry, push­ing his hair out of his eyes, try­ing to think straight. ‘Come –’

But then, out of the dark­ness, they heard a yelp­ing, a whin­ing; a dog in pain …

‘Sir­ius,’ Har­ry mut­tered, star­ing in­to the dark­ness.

He had a mo­ment’s in­de­ci­sion, but there was noth­ing they could do for Ron at the mo­ment, and by the sound of it, Black was in trou­ble –

Har­ry set off at a run, Hermione right be­hind him. The yelp­ing seemed to be com­ing from near the lake. They pelt­ed to­wards it, and Har­ry, run­ning flat out, felt the cold with­out re­al­is­ing what it must mean –

The yelp­ing stopped abrupt­ly. As they reached the lake’s shore they saw why – Sir­ius had turned back in­to a man. He was crouched on all fours, his hands over his head.

‘Nooo,’ he moaned. ‘Noooo …. please …’

And then Har­ry saw them. De­men­tors, at least a hun­dred of them, glid­ing in a black mass around the lake to­wards them. He spun around, the fa­mil­iar, icy cold pen­etrat­ing his in­sides, fog start­ing to ob­scure his vi­sion; more were ap­pear­ing out of the dark­ness on ev­ery side; they were en­cir­cling them …

‘Hermione, think of some­thing hap­py!’ Har­ry yelled, rais­ing his wand, blink­ing fu­ri­ous­ly to try and clear his vi­sion, shak­ing his head to rid it of the faint scream­ing that had start­ed in­side it –

I’m go­ing to live with my god­fa­ther. I’m leav­ing the Durs­leys.

He forced him­self to think of Sir­ius, and on­ly Sir­ius, and be­gan to chant: ‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

Black gave a shud­der, rolled over and lay mo­tion­less on the ground, pale as death.

He’ll be all right. I’m go­ing to go and live with him.

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um! Hermione, help me! Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’

‘Ex­pec­to –’ Hermione whis­pered, ‘ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to –’

But she couldn’t do it. The De­men­tors were clos­ing in, bare­ly ten feet from them. They formed a sol­id wall around Har­ry and Hermione, and were get­ting clos­er …

‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’ Har­ry yelled, try­ing to blot the scream­ing from his ears. ‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’

A thin wisp of sil­ver es­caped his wand and hov­ered like mist be­fore him. At the same mo­ment, Har­ry felt Hermione col­lapse next to him. He was alone … com­plete­ly alone …

‘Ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to pa­tron­um –’

Har­ry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was cloud­ing his eyes. With a huge ef­fort, he fought to re­mem­ber – Sir­ius was in­no­cent – in­no­cent – we’ll be OK – I’m go­ing to live with him –

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!’ he gasped.

By the fee­ble light of his form­less Pa­tronus, he saw a De­men­tor halt, very close to him. It couldn’t walk through the cloud of sil­ver mist Har­ry had con­jured. A dead, slimy hand slid out from un­der the cloak. It made a ges­ture as though to sweep the Pa­tronus aside.

‘No – no –’ Har­ry gasped. ‘He’s in­no­cent … ex­pec­to – ex­pec­to pa­tron­um –’

He could feel them watch­ing him, hear their rat­tling breath like an evil wind around him. The near­est De­men­tor seemed to be con­sid­er­ing him. Then it raised both its rot­ting hands – and low­ered its hood.

Where there should have been eyes, there was on­ly thin, grey, scabbed skin, stretched blankly over emp­ty sock­ets. But there was a mouth … a gap­ing, shape­less hole, suck­ing the air with the sound of a death-​rat­tle.

A paralysing ter­ror filled Har­ry so that he couldn’t move or speak. His Pa­tronus flick­ered and died.

White fog was blind­ing him. He had to fight … ex­pec­to pa­tron­um … he couldn’t see … and in the dis­tance, he heard the fa­mil­iar scream­ing … ex­pec­to pa­tron­um … he groped in the mist for Sir­ius, and found his arm … they weren’t go­ing to take him …

But a pair of strong, clam­my hands sud­den­ly wrapped them­selves around Har­ry’s neck. They were forc­ing his face up­wards … he could feel its breath … it was go­ing to get rid of him first … he could feel its pu­trid breath … his moth­er was scream­ing in his ears … she was go­ing to be the last thing he ev­er heard –

And then, through the fog that was drown­ing him, he thought he saw a sil­very light, grow­ing brighter and brighter … he felt him­self fall for­wards on­to the grass –

Face down, too weak to move, sick and shak­ing, Har­ry opened his eyes. The blind­ing light was il­lu­mi­nat­ing the grass around him … The scream­ing had stopped, the cold was ebbing away …

Some­thing was driv­ing the De­men­tors back … it was cir­cling around him and Sir­ius and Hermione … the rat­tling, suck­ing sounds of the De­men­tors were fad­ing. They were leav­ing … the air was warm again …

With ev­ery ounce of strength he could muster, Har­ry raised his head a few inch­es and saw an an­imal amidst the light, gal­lop­ing away across the lake. Eyes blurred with sweat, Har­ry tried to make out what it was … it was bright as a uni­corn. Fight­ing to stay con­scious, Har­ry watched it can­ter to a halt as it reached the op­po­site shore. For a mo­ment, Har­ry saw, by its bright­ness, some­body wel­com­ing it back … rais­ing his hand to pat it … some­one who looked strange­ly fa­mil­iar … but it couldn’t be …

Har­ry didn’t un­der­stand. He couldn’t think any more. He felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head hit the ground as he faint­ed.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE


Hermione’s Se­cret



‘Shock­ing busi­ness … shock­ing … mir­acle none of them died … nev­er heard the like … by thun­der, it was lucky you were there, Snape …’

‘Thank you, Min­is­ter.’

‘Or­der of Mer­lin, Sec­ond Class, I’d say. First Class, if I can wan­gle it!’

‘Thank you very much in­deed, Min­is­ter.’

‘Nasty cut you’ve got there … Black’s work, I sup­pose?’

‘As a mat­ter of fact, it was Pot­ter, Weasley and Granger, Min­is­ter …’

‘No!’

‘Black had be­witched them, I saw it im­me­di­ate­ly. A Con­fun­dus Charm, to judge by their be­haviour. They seemed to think there was a pos­si­bil­ity he was in­no­cent. They weren’t re­spon­si­ble for their ac­tions. On the oth­er hand, their in­ter­fer­ence might have per­mit­ted Black to es­cape … they ob­vi­ous­ly thought they were go­ing to catch Black sin­gle-​hand­ed. They’ve got away with a great deal be­fore now … I’m afraid it’s giv­en them a rather high opin­ion of them­selves … and of course Pot­ter has al­ways been al­lowed an ex­traor­di­nary amount of li­cence by the Head­mas­ter –’

‘Ah, well, Snape … Har­ry Pot­ter, you know … we’ve all got a bit of a blind spot where he’s con­cerned.’

‘And yet – is it good for him to be giv­en so much spe­cial treat­ment? Per­son­al­ly I try to treat him like any oth­er stu­dent. And any oth­er stu­dent would be sus­pend­ed – at the very least – for lead­ing his friends in­to such dan­ger. Con­sid­er, Min­is­ter: against all school rules – af­ter all the pre­cau­tions put in place for his pro­tec­tion – out of bounds, at night, con­sort­ing with a were­wolf and a mur­der­er – and I have rea­son to be­lieve he has been vis­it­ing Hogsmeade il­le­gal­ly, too –’

‘Well, well … we shall see, Snape, we shall see … the boy has un­doubt­ed­ly been fool­ish …’

Har­ry lay lis­ten­ing with his eyes tight shut. He felt very grog­gy. The words he was hear­ing seemed to be trav­el­ling very slow­ly from his ears to his brain, so that it was dif­fi­cult to un­der­stand. His limbs felt like lead; his eye­lids too heavy to lift … he want­ed to lie here, on this com­fort­able bed, for ev­er …

‘What amazes me most is the be­haviour of the De­men­tors … you’ve re­al­ly no idea what made them re­treat, Snape?’

‘No, Min­is­ter. By the time I had come round they were head­ing back to their po­si­tions at the en­trances …’

‘Ex­traor­di­nary. And yet Black, and Har­ry, and the girl –’

‘All un­con­scious by the time I reached them. I bound and gagged Black, nat­ural­ly, con­jured stretch­ers and brought them all straight back to the cas­tle.’

There was a pause. Har­ry’s brain seemed to be mov­ing a lit­tle faster, and as it did, a gnaw­ing sen­sa­tion grew in the pit of his stom­ach …

He opened his eyes.

Ev­ery­thing was slight­ly blurred. Some­body had re­moved his glass­es. He was ly­ing in the dark hos­pi­tal wing. At the very end of the ward, he could make out Madam Pom­frey with her back to him, bend­ing over a bed. Har­ry squint­ed. Ron’s red hair was vis­ible be­neath Madam Pom­frey’s arm.

Har­ry moved his head over on the pil­low. In the bed to his right lay Hermione. Moon­light was falling across her bed. Her eyes were open, too. She looked pet­ri­fied, and when she saw that Har­ry was awake, pressed a fin­ger to her lips, then point­ed to the hos­pi­tal-​wing door. It was ajar, and the voic­es of Cor­nelius Fudge and Snape were com­ing through it from the cor­ri­dor out­side.

Madam Pom­frey now came walk­ing briskly up the dark ward to Har­ry’s bed. He turned to look at her. She was car­ry­ing the largest block of choco­late he had ev­er seen in his life. It looked like a small boul­der.

‘Ah, you’re awake!’ she said briskly. She placed the choco­late on Har­ry’s bed­side ta­ble and be­gan break­ing it apart with a small ham­mer.

‘How’s Ron?’ said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er.

‘He’ll live,’ said Madam Pom­frey grim­ly. ‘As for you two … you’ll be stay­ing here un­til I’m sat­is­fied you’re – Pot­ter, what do you think you’re do­ing?’

Har­ry was sit­ting up, putting his glass­es back on and pick­ing up his wand.

‘I need to see the Head­mas­ter,’ he said.

‘Pot­ter,’ said Madam Pom­frey sooth­ing­ly, ‘it’s all right. They’ve got Black. He’s locked away up­stairs. The De­men­tors will be per­form­ing the Kiss any mo­ment now –’

‘WHAT?’

Har­ry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the same. But his shout had been heard in the cor­ri­dor out­side; next sec­ond, Cor­nelius Fudge and Snape had en­tered the ward.

‘Har­ry Har­ry, what’s this?’ said Fudge, look­ing ag­itat­ed. ‘You should be in bed – has he had any choco­late?’ he asked Madam Pom­frey anx­ious­ly.

‘Min­is­ter, lis­ten!’ Har­ry said. ‘Sir­ius Black’s in­no­cent! Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew faked his own death! We saw him tonight! You can’t let the De­men­tors do that thing to Sir­ius, he’s –’

But Fudge was shak­ing his head with a small smile on his face.

‘Har­ry, Har­ry, you’re very con­fused, you’ve been through a dread­ful or­deal, lie back down, now, we’ve got ev­ery­thing un­der con­trol …’

‘YOU HAVEN’T!’ Har­ry yelled. ‘YOU’VE GOT THE WRONG MAN!’

‘Min­is­ter, lis­ten, please,’ Hermione said; she had hur­ried to Har­ry’s side and was gaz­ing im­plor­ing­ly in­to Fudge’s face. ‘I saw him, too. It was Ron’s rat, he’s an An­ima­gus, Pet­ti­grew, I mean, and –’

‘You see, Min­is­ter?’ said Snape. ‘Con­fund­ed, both of them … Black’s done a very good job on them …’

‘WE’RE NOT CON­FUND­ED!’ Har­ry roared.

‘Min­is­ter! Pro­fes­sor!’ said Madam Pom­frey an­gri­ly. ‘I must in­sist that you leave. Pot­ter is my pa­tient, and he should not be dis­tressed!’

‘I’m not dis­tressed, I’m try­ing to tell them what hap­pened!’ Har­ry said fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘If they’d just lis­ten –’

But Madam Pom­frey sud­den­ly stuffed a large chunk of choco­late in­to Har­ry’s mouth. He choked, and she seized the op­por­tu­ni­ty to force him back on­to the bed.

‘Now, please, Min­is­ter, these chil­dren need care. Please leave –’

The door opened again. It was Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry swal­lowed his mouth­ful of choco­late with great dif­fi­cul­ty, and got up again.

‘Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, Sir­ius Black –’

‘For heav­en’s sake!’ said Madam Pom­frey hys­ter­ical­ly. ‘Is this a hos­pi­tal wing or not? Head­mas­ter, I must in­sist –’

‘My apolo­gies, Pop­py, but I need a word with Mr Pot­ter and Miss Granger,’ said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. ‘I have just been talk­ing to Sir­ius Black –’

‘I sup­pose he’s told you the same fairy tale he’s plant­ed in Pot­ter’s mind?’ spat Snape. ‘Some­thing about a rat, and Pet­ti­grew be­ing alive –’

‘That, in­deed, is Black’s sto­ry’ said Dum­ble­dore, sur­vey­ing Snape close­ly through his half-​moon spec­ta­cles.

‘And does my ev­idence count for noth­ing?’ snarled Snape. ‘Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew was not in the Shriek­ing Shack, nor did I see any sign of him in the grounds.’

‘That was be­cause you were knocked out, Pro­fes­sor!’ said Hermione earnest­ly. ‘You didn’t ar­rive in time to hear –’

‘Miss Granger, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!’

‘Now, Snape,’ said Fudge, star­tled, ‘the young la­dy is dis­turbed in her mind, we must make al­lowances –’

‘I would like to speak to Har­ry and Hermione alone,’ said Dum­ble­dore abrupt­ly. ‘Cor­nelius, Severus, Pop­py – please leave us.’

‘Head­mas­ter!’ splut­tered Madam Pom­frey. ‘They need treat­ment, they need rest –’

‘This can­not wait,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘I must in­sist.’

Madam Pom­frey pursed her lips and strode away in­to her of­fice at the end of the ward, slam­ming the door be­hind her. Fudge con­sult­ed the large gold pock­et watch dan­gling from his waist­coat.

‘The De­men­tors should have ar­rived by now,’ he said. ‘I’ll go and meet them. Dum­ble­dore, I’ll see you up­stairs.’

He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, but Snape hadn’t moved.

‘You sure­ly don’t be­lieve a word of Black’s sto­ry?’ Snape whis­pered, his eyes fixed on Dum­ble­dore’s face.

‘I wish to speak to Har­ry and Hermione alone,’ Dum­ble­dore re­peat­ed.

Snape took a step to­wards Dum­ble­dore.

‘Sir­ius Black showed he was ca­pa­ble of mur­der at the age of six­teen,’ he breathed. ‘You haven’t for­got­ten that, Head­mas­ter? You haven’t for­got­ten that he once tried to kill me?’

‘My mem­ory is as good as it ev­er was, Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

Snape turned on his heel and marched through the door Fudge was still hold­ing. It closed be­hind them and Dum­ble­dore turned to Har­ry and Hermione. They both burst in­to speech at the same time.

‘Pro­fes­sor, Black’s telling the truth – we saw Pet­ti­grew –’

‘– he es­caped when Pro­fes­sor Lupin turned in­to a were­wolf –’

‘– he’s a rat –’

‘– Pet­ti­grew’s front paw, I mean, fin­ger, he cut it off –’

‘– Pet­ti­grew at­tacked Ron, it wasn’t Sir­ius –’

But Dum­ble­dore held up his hand to stem the flood of ex­pla­na­tions.

‘It is your turn to lis­ten, and I beg you will not in­ter­rupt me, be­cause there is very lit­tle time,’ he said qui­et­ly. ‘There is not a shred of proof to sup­port Black’s sto­ry, ex­cept your word – and the word of two thir­teen-​year-​old wiz­ards will not con­vince any­body. A street full of eye-​wit­ness­es swore they saw Sir­ius mur­der Pet­ti­grew. I my­self gave ev­idence to the Min­istry that Sir­ius had been the Pot­ters’ Se­cret-​Keep­er.’

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin can tell you –’ Har­ry said, un­able to stop him­self.

‘Pro­fes­sor Lupin is cur­rent­ly deep in the For­est, un­able to tell any­one any­thing. By the time he is hu­man again, it will be too late, Sir­ius will be worse than dead. I might add that were­wolves are so mis­trust­ed by most of our kind that his sup­port will count for very lit­tle – and the fact that he and Sir­ius are old friends –’

‘But –’

‘Lis­ten to me, Har­ry. It is too late, you un­der­stand me? You must see that Pro­fes­sor Snape’s ver­sion of events is far more con­vinc­ing than yours.’

‘He hates Sir­ius,’ Hermione said des­per­ate­ly. ‘All be­cause of some stupid trick Sir­ius played on him –’

‘Sir­ius has not act­ed like an in­no­cent man. The at­tack on the Fat La­dy – en­ter­ing Gryffind­or Tow­er with a knife – with­out Pet­ti­grew, alive or dead, we have no chance of over­turn­ing Sir­ius’ sen­tence.’

‘But you be­lieve us.’

‘Yes, I do,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘But I have no pow­er to make oth­er men see the truth, or to over­rule the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic …’

Har­ry stared up in­to the grave face and felt as though the ground be­neath him was falling sharply away. He had grown used to the idea that Dum­ble­dore could solve any­thing. He had ex­pect­ed Dum­ble­dore to pull some amaz­ing so­lu­tion out of the air. But no … their last hope was gone.

‘What we need,’ said Dum­ble­dore slow­ly, and his light-​blue eyes moved from Har­ry to Hermione, ‘is more time.’

‘But –’ Hermione be­gan. And then her eyes be­came very round. ‘OH!’

‘Now, pay at­ten­tion,’ said Dum­ble­dore, speak­ing very low, and very clear­ly. ‘Sir­ius is locked in Pro­fes­sor Flitwick’s of­fice on the sev­enth floor. Thir­teenth win­dow from the right of the West Tow­er. If all goes well, you will be able to save more than one in­no­cent life tonight. But re­mem­ber this, both of you. You must not be seen. Miss Granger, you know the law – you know what is at stake … you – must – not – be – seen.’

Har­ry didn’t have a clue what was go­ing on. Dum­ble­dore had turned on his heel and looked back as he reached the door.

‘I am go­ing to lock you in. It is –’ he con­sult­ed his watch, ‘five min­utes to mid­night. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck.’

‘Good luck?’ Har­ry re­peat­ed, as the door closed be­hind Dum­ble­dore. ‘Three turns? What’s he talk­ing about? What are we sup­posed to do?’

But Hermione was fum­bling with the neck of her robes, pulling from be­neath them a very long, very fine gold chain.

‘Har­ry come here,’ she said ur­gent­ly. ‘Quick!’

Har­ry moved to­wards her, com­plete­ly be­wil­dered. She was hold­ing the chain out. He saw a tiny, sparkling hour­glass hang­ing from it.

‘Here –’

She had thrown the chain around his neck, too.

‘Ready?’ she said breath­less­ly.

‘What are we do­ing?’ Har­ry said, com­plete­ly lost.

Hermione turned the hour­glass over three times.

The dark ward dis­solved. Har­ry had the sen­sa­tion that he was fly­ing, very fast, back­wards. A blur of colours and shapes rushed past him; his ears were pound­ing. He tried to yell but couldn’t hear his own voice –

And then he felt sol­id ground be­neath his feet, and ev­ery­thing came in­to fo­cus again –

He was stand­ing next to Hermione in the de­sert­ed En­trance Hall and a stream of gold­en sun­light was falling across the paved floor from the open front doors. He looked wild­ly around at Hermione, the chain of the hour­glass cut­ting in­to his neck.

‘Hermione, what –?’

‘In here!’ Hermione seized Har­ry’s arm and dragged him across the hall to the door of a broom cup­board; she opened it, pushed him in­side amongst the buck­ets and mops, fol­lowed him in, then slammed the door be­hind them.

‘What – how – Hermione, what hap­pened?’

‘We’ve gone back in time,’ Hermione whis­pered, lift­ing the chain off Har­ry’s neck in the dark­ness. ‘Three hours back …’

Har­ry found his own leg and gave it a very hard pinch. It hurt a lot, which seemed to rule out the pos­si­bil­ity that he was hav­ing a very bizarre dream.

‘But –’

‘Shh! Lis­ten! Some­one’s com­ing! I think – I think it might be us!’

Hermione had her ear pressed against the cup­board door.

‘Foot­steps across the hall … yes, I think it’s us go­ing down to Ha­grid’s!’

‘Are you telling me,’ Har­ry whis­pered, ‘that we’re here in this cup­board and we’re out there, too?’

‘Yes,’ said Hermione, her ear still glued to the cup­board door. ‘I’m sure it’s us … it doesn’t sound like more than three peo­ple … and we’re walk­ing slow­ly be­cause we’re un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak –’

She broke off, still lis­ten­ing in­tent­ly.

‘We’ve gone down the front steps …’

Hermione sat down on an up­turned buck­et; look­ing des­per­ate­ly anx­ious, Har­ry want­ed a few ques­tions an­swered.

‘Where did you get that hour­glass thing?’

‘It’s called a Time-​Turn­er,’ Hermione whis­pered, ‘and I got it from Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall on our first day back. I’ve been us­ing it all year to get to all my lessons. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall made me swear I wouldn’t tell any­one. She had to write all sorts of let­ters to the Min­istry of Mag­ic so I could have one. She had to tell them that I was a mod­el stu­dent, and that I’d nev­er, ev­er use it for any­thing ex­cept my stud­ies … I’ve been turn­ing it back so I could do hours over again, that’s how I’ve been do­ing sev­er­al lessons at once, see? But …

‘Har­ry, I don’t un­der­stand what Dum­ble­dore wants us to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? How’s that go­ing to help Sir­ius?’

Har­ry stared at her shad­owy face.

‘There must be some­thing that hap­pened around now he wants us to change,’ he said slow­ly. ‘What hap­pened? We were walk­ing down to Ha­grid’s three hours ago …’

‘This is three hours ago, and we are walk­ing down to Ha­grid’s,’ said Hermione. ‘We just heard our­selves leav­ing …’

Har­ry frowned; he felt as though he was screw­ing up his whole brain in con­cen­tra­tion.

‘Dum­ble­dore just said – just said we could save more than one in­no­cent life …’ And then it hit him. ‘Hermione, we’re go­ing to save Buck­beak!’

‘But – how will that help Sir­ius?’

‘Dum­ble­dore said – he just told us where the win­dow is – the win­dow of Flitwick’s of­fice! Where they’ve got Sir­ius locked up! We’ve got to fly Buck­beak up to the win­dow and res­cue Sir­ius! Sir­ius can es­cape on Buck­beak – they can es­cape to­geth­er!’

From what Har­ry could see of Hermione’s face, she looked ter­ri­fied.

‘If we man­age that with­out be­ing seen, it’ll be a mir­acle!’

‘Well, we’ve got to try, haven’t we?’ said Har­ry. He stood up and pressed his own ear against the door.

‘Doesn’t sound like any­one’s there … come on, let’s go …’

Har­ry pushed the cup­board door open. The En­trance Hall was de­sert­ed. As qui­et­ly and quick­ly as they could, they dart­ed out of the cup­board and down the stone steps. The shad­ows were al­ready length­en­ing, the tops of the trees in the For­bid­den For­est gild­ed once more with gold.

‘If any­one’s look­ing out of the win­dow –’ Hermione squeaked, look­ing up at the cas­tle be­hind them.

‘We’ll run for it,’ said Har­ry de­ter­mined­ly. ‘Straight in­to the For­est, all right? We’ll have to hide be­hind a tree or some­thing and keep a look­out –’

‘OK, but we’ll go round by the green­hous­es!’ said Hermione breath­less­ly. ‘We need to keep out of sight of Ha­grid’s front door, or we’ll see us! We must be near­ly at Ha­grid’s by now!’

Still work­ing out what she meant, Har­ry set off at a sprint, Hermione be­hind him. They tore across the veg­etable gar­dens to the green­hous­es, paused for a mo­ment be­hind them, then set off again, fast as they could, skirt­ing around the Whomp­ing Wil­low, tear­ing to­wards the shel­ter of the For­est …

Safe in the shad­ows of the trees, Har­ry turned around; sec­onds lat­er, Hermione ar­rived be­side him, pant­ing.

‘Right,’ she gasped, ‘we need to sneak over to Ha­grid’s. Keep out of sight, Har­ry …’

They made their way silent­ly through the trees, keep­ing to the very edge of the For­est. Then, as they glimpsed the front of Ha­grid’s house, they heard a knock up­on his door. They moved quick­ly be­hind a wide oak trunk and peered out from ei­ther side. Ha­grid had ap­peared in his door­way, shak­ing and white, look­ing around to see who had knocked. And Har­ry heard his own voice.

‘It’s us. We’re wear­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.’

‘Yeh shouldn’ve come!’ Ha­grid whis­pered. He stood back, then shut the door quick­ly.

‘This is the weird­est thing we’ve ev­er done,’ Har­ry said fer­vent­ly.

‘Let’s move along a bit,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘We need to get near­er to Buck­beak!’

They crept through the trees un­til they saw the ner­vous Hip­pogriff, teth­ered to the fence around Ha­grid’s pump­kin patch.

‘Now?’ Har­ry whis­pered.

‘No!’ said Hermione. ‘If we steal him now, those Com­mit­tee peo­ple will think Ha­grid set him free! We’ve got to wait un­til they’ve seen he’s tied out­side!’

‘That’s go­ing to give us about six­ty sec­onds,’ said Har­ry. This was start­ing to seem im­pos­si­ble.

At that mo­ment, there was a crash of break­ing chi­na from in­side Ha­grid’s cab­in.

‘That’s Ha­grid break­ing the milk jug,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘I’m go­ing to find Scab­bers in a mo­ment –’

Sure enough, a few min­utes lat­er, they heard Hermione’s shriek of sur­prise.

‘Hermione,’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly, ‘what if we – we just run in there, and grab Pet­ti­grew –’

‘No!’ said Hermione in a ter­ri­fied whis­per. ‘Don’t you un­der­stand? We’re break­ing one of the most im­por­tant wiz­ard­ing laws!

‘No­body’s sup­posed to change time, no­body! You heard Dum­ble­dore, if we’re seen –’

‘We’d on­ly be seen by our­selves and Ha­grid!’

‘Har­ry, what do you think you’d do if you saw your­self burst­ing in­to Ha­grid’s house?’ said Hermione.

‘I’d – I’d think I’d gone mad,’ said Har­ry, ‘or I’d think there was some Dark Mag­ic go­ing on –’

‘Ex­act­ly! You wouldn’t un­der­stand, you might even at­tack your­self! Don’t you see? Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told me what aw­ful things have hap­pened when wiz­ards have med­dled with time … loads of them end­ed up killing their past or fu­ture selves by mis­take!’

‘OK!’ said Har­ry. ‘It was just an idea, I just thought –’

But Hermione nudged him, and point­ed to­wards the cas­tle. Har­ry moved his head a few inch­es to get a clear view of the dis­tant front doors. Dum­ble­dore, Fudge, the old Com­mit­tee mem­ber, and Mac­nair the ex­ecu­tion­er were com­ing down the steps.

‘We’re about to come out!’ Hermione breathed.

And sure enough, mo­ments lat­er, Ha­grid’s back door opened, and Har­ry saw him­self, Ron and Hermione walk­ing out of it with Ha­grid. It was, with­out a doubt, the strangest sen­sa­tion of his life, stand­ing be­hind the tree, and watch­ing him­self in the pump­kin patch.

‘It’s OK, Beaky, it’s OK …’ Ha­grid said to Buck­beak. Then he turned to Har­ry, Ron and Hermione. ‘Go on. Get goin’.’

‘Ha­grid, we can’t –’

‘We’ll tell them what re­al­ly hap­pened –’

‘They can’t kill him –’

‘Go! It’s bad enough with­out you lot in trou­ble an’ all!’

Har­ry watched the Hermione in the pump­kin patch throw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over him­self and Ron.

‘Go quick. Don’ lis­ten …’

There was a knock on Ha­grid’s front door. The ex­ecu­tion par­ty had ar­rived. Ha­grid turned around and head­ed back in­to his cab­in, leav­ing the back door ajar. Har­ry watched the grass flat­ten in patch­es all around the cab­in and heard three pairs of feet re­treat­ing. He, Ron and Hermione had gone … but the Har­ry and Hermione hid­den in the trees could now hear what was hap­pen­ing in­side the cab­in through the back door.

‘Where is the beast?’ came the cold voice of Mac­nair.

‘Out – out­side,’ Ha­grid croaked.

Har­ry pulled his head out of sight as Mac­nair’s face ap­peared at Ha­grid’s win­dow, star­ing out at Buck­beak. Then they heard Fudge.

‘We – er – have to read you the of­fi­cial no­tice of ex­ecu­tion, Ha­grid. I’ll make it quick. And then you and Mac­nair need to sign it. Mac­nair, you’re sup­posed to lis­ten too, that’s pro­ce­dure –’

Mac­nair’s face van­ished from the win­dow. It was now or nev­er.

‘Wait here,’ Har­ry whis­pered to Hermione. ‘I’ll do it.’

As Fudge’s voice start­ed again, Har­ry dart­ed out from be­hind his tree, vault­ed the fence in­to the pump­kin patch and ap­proached Buck­beak.

‘It is the de­ci­sion of the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures that the Hip­pogriff Buck­beak, here­after called the con­demned, shall be ex­ecut­ed on the sixth of June at sun­down –’

Care­ful not to blink, Har­ry stared up in­to Buck­beak’s fierce or­ange eye once more, and bowed. Buck­beak sank to his scaly knees and then stood up again. Har­ry be­gan to fum­ble with the rope ty­ing Buck­beak to the fence.

‘… sen­tenced to ex­ecu­tion by be­head­ing, to be car­ried out by the Com­mit­tee’s ap­point­ed ex­ecu­tion­er, Walden Mac­nair …’

‘Come on, Buck­beak,’ Har­ry mur­mured, ‘come on, we’re go­ing to help you. Qui­et­ly … qui­et­ly …’

‘… as wit­nessed be­low. Ha­grid, you sign here …’

Har­ry threw all his weight on­to the rope, but Buck­beak had dug in his front feet.

‘Well, let’s get this over with,’ said the reedy voice of the Com­mit­tee mem­ber from in­side Ha­grid’s cab­in. ‘Ha­grid, per­haps it would be bet­ter if you stayed in­side –’

‘No, I – I wan’ ter be with him … I don’ wan’ him ter be alone –’

Foot­steps echoed from with­in the cab­in.

‘Buck­beak, move!’ Har­ry hissed.

Har­ry tugged hard­er on the rope around Buck­beak’s neck. The Hip­pogriff be­gan to walk, rustling its wings ir­ri­ta­bly. They were still ten feet away from the For­est, in plain view of Ha­grid’s back door.

‘One mo­ment, please, Mac­nair,’ came Dum­ble­dore’s voice. ‘You need to sign, too.’ The foot­steps stopped. Har­ry heaved on the rope. Buck­beak snapped his beak and walked a lit­tle faster.

Hermione’s white face was stick­ing out from be­hind a tree.

‘Har­ry, hur­ry!’ she mouthed.

Har­ry could still hear Dum­ble­dore’s voice talk­ing from with­in the cab­in. He gave the rope an­oth­er wrench. Buck­beak broke in­to a grudg­ing trot. They had reached the trees …

‘Quick! Quick!’ Hermione moaned, dart­ing out from be­hind her tree, seiz­ing the rope too and adding her weight to make Buck­beak move faster. Har­ry looked over his shoul­der; they were now blocked from sight; they couldn’t see Ha­grid’s gar­den at all.

‘Stop!’ he whis­pered to Hermione. ‘They might hear us –’

Ha­grid’s back door had opened with a bang. Har­ry, Hermione and Buck­beak stood quite still; even the Hip­pogriff seemed to be lis­ten­ing in­tent­ly.

Si­lence … then –

‘Where is it?’ said the reedy voice of the Com­mit­tee mem­ber. ‘Where is the beast?’

‘It was tied here!’ said the ex­ecu­tion­er fu­ri­ous­ly. ‘I saw it! Just here!’

‘How ex­traor­di­nary’ said Dum­ble­dore. There was a note of amuse­ment in his voice.

‘Beaky!’ said Ha­grid huski­ly.

There was a swish­ing noise, and the thud of an axe. The ex­ecu­tion­er seemed to have swung it in­to the fence in anger. And then came the howl­ing, and this time they could hear Ha­grid’s words through his sobs.

‘Gone! Gone! Bless his lit­tle beak, he’s gone! Mus­ta pulled him­self free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!’

Buck­beak start­ed to strain against the rope, try­ing to get back to Ha­grid. Har­ry and Hermione tight­ened their grip and dug their heels in­to the For­est floor to stop him.

‘Some­one un­tied him!’ the ex­ecu­tion­er was snarling. ‘We should search the grounds, the For­est –’

‘Mac­nair, if Buck­beak has in­deed been stolen, do you re­al­ly think the thief will have led him away on foot?’ said Dum­ble­dore, still sound­ing amused. ‘Search the skies, if you will … Ha­grid, I could do with a cup of tea. Or a large brandy.’

‘O’ – o’ course, Pro­fes­sor,’ said Ha­grid, who sound­ed weak with hap­pi­ness. ‘Come in, come in …’

Har­ry and Hermione lis­tened close­ly. They heard foot­steps, the soft curs­ing of the ex­ecu­tion­er, the snap of the door, and then si­lence once more.

‘Now what?’ whis­pered Har­ry, look­ing around.

‘We’ll have to hide in here,’ said Hermione, who looked very shak­en. ‘We need to wait un­til they’ve gone back to the cas­tle. Then we wait un­til it’s safe to fly Buck­beak up to Sir­ius’ win­dow. He won’t be there for an­oth­er cou­ple of hours , this is go­ing to be dif­fi­cult …’

She looked ner­vous­ly over her shoul­der in­to the depths of the For­est. The sun was set­ting now.

‘We’re go­ing to have to move,’ said Har­ry, think­ing hard. ‘We’ve got to be able to see the Whomp­ing Wil­low, or we won’t know what’s go­ing on.’

‘OK,’ said Hermione, get­ting a firmer grip on Buck­beak’s rope. ‘But we’ve got to keep out of sight, Har­ry, re­mem­ber …’

They moved around the edge of the For­est, dark­ness falling thick­ly around them, un­til they were hid­den be­hind a clump of trees through which they could make out the Wil­low.

‘There’s Ron!’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly.

A dark fig­ure was sprint­ing across the lawn and its shout echoed through the still night air.

‘Get away from him – get away – Scab­bers, come here –’

And then they saw two more fig­ures ma­te­ri­alise out of nowhere. Har­ry watched him­self and Hermione chas­ing af­ter Ron. Then he saw Ron dive.

‘Gotcha! Get off, you stink­ing cat –’

‘There’s Sir­ius!’ said Har­ry. The great shape of the dog had bound­ed out from the roots of the Wil­low. They saw him bowl Har­ry over, then seize Ron …

‘Looks even worse from here, doesn’t it?’ said Har­ry, watch­ing the dog pulling Ron in­to the roots. ‘Ouch – look, I just got wal­loped by the tree – and so did you – this is weird –’

The Whomp­ing Wil­low was creak­ing and lash­ing out with its low­er branch­es; they could see them­selves dart­ing here and there, try­ing to reach the trunk. And then the tree froze.

‘That was Crook­shanks press­ing the knot,’ said Hermione.

‘And there we go …’ Har­ry mut­tered. ‘We’re in.’

The mo­ment they dis­ap­peared, the tree be­gan to move again. Sec­onds lat­er, they heard foot­steps quite close by. Dum­ble­dore, Mac­nair, Fudge and the old Com­mit­tee mem­ber were mak­ing their way up to the cas­tle.

‘Right af­ter we’d gone down in­to the pas­sage!’ said Hermione. ‘If on­ly Dum­ble­dore had come with us …’

‘Mac­nair and Fudge would’ve come too,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. ‘I bet you any­thing Fudge would’ve told Mac­nair to mur­der Sir­ius on the spot …’

They watched the four men climb the cas­tle steps and dis­ap­pear from view. For a few min­utes the scene was de­sert­ed. Then –

‘Here comes Lupin!’ said Har­ry, as they saw an­oth­er fig­ure sprint­ing down the stone steps and har­ing to­wards the Wil­low. Har­ry looked up at the sky. Clouds were ob­scur­ing the moon com­plete­ly.

They watched Lupin seize a bro­ken branch from the ground and prod the knot on the trunk. The tree stopped fight­ing, and Lupin, too, dis­ap­peared in­to the gap in its roots.

‘If he’d on­ly grabbed the Cloak,’ said Har­ry. ‘It’s just ly­ing there …’

He turned to Hermione.

‘If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Snape’d nev­er be able to get it and –’

‘Har­ry, we mustn’t be seen!’

‘How can you stand this?’ he asked Hermione fierce­ly. ‘Just stand­ing here and watch­ing it hap­pen?’ He hes­itat­ed. ‘I’m go­ing to grab the Cloak!’

‘Har­ry, no!’

Hermione seized the back of Har­ry’s robes not a mo­ment too soon. Just then, they heard a burst of song. It was Ha­grid, mak­ing his way up to the cas­tle, singing at the top of his voice, and weav­ing slight­ly as he walked. A large bot­tle was swing­ing from his hands.

‘See?’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘See what would have hap­pened? We’ve got to keep out of sight! No, Buck­beak!’

The Hip­pogriff was mak­ing fran­tic at­tempts to get to Ha­grid again; Har­ry seized his rope, too, strain­ing to hold Buck­beak back. They watched Ha­grid me­an­der tipsi­ly up to the cas­tle. He was gone. Buck­beak stopped fight­ing to get away. His head drooped sad­ly.

Bare­ly two min­utes lat­er, the cas­tle doors flew open yet again, and Snape had come charg­ing out of them, run­ning to­wards the Wil­low.

Har­ry’s fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to a halt next to the tree, look­ing around. He grabbed the Cloak and held it up.

‘Get your filthy hands off it,’ Har­ry snarled un­der his breath.

‘Shh!’

Snape seized the branch Lupin had used to freeze the tree, prod­ded the knot, and van­ished from view as he put on the Cloak.

‘So that’s it,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly. ‘We’re all down there … and now we’ve just got to wait un­til we come back up again …’

She took the end of Buck­beak’s rope and tied it se­cure­ly around the near­est tree, then sat down on the dry ground, arms around her knees.

‘Har­ry, there’s some­thing I don’t un­der­stand … why didn’t the De­men­tors get Sir­ius? I re­mem­ber them com­ing, and then I think I passed out … there were so many of them …’

Har­ry sat down, too. He ex­plained what he’d seen; how, as the near­est De­men­tor had low­ered its mouth to Har­ry’s, a large sil­ver some­thing had come gal­lop­ing across the lake and forced the De­men­tors to re­treat.

Hermione’s mouth was slight­ly open by the time Har­ry had fin­ished.

‘But what was it?’

‘There’s on­ly one thing it could have been, to make the De­men­tors go,’ said Har­ry. ‘A re­al Pa­tronus. A pow­er­ful one.’

‘But who con­jured it?’

Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. He was think­ing back to the per­son he’d seen on the oth­er bank of the lake. He knew who he thought it had been … but how could it have been?

‘Didn’t you see what they looked like?’ said Hermione ea­ger­ly. ‘Was it one of the teach­ers?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry. ‘He wasn’t a teach­er.’

‘But it must have been a re­al­ly pow­er­ful wiz­ard, to drive all those De­men­tors away … If the Pa­tronus was shin­ing so bright­ly, didn’t it light him up? Couldn’t you see –?’

‘Yeah, I saw him,’ said Har­ry slow­ly. ‘But … maybe I imag­ined it … I wasn’t think­ing straight … I passed out right af­ter­wards …’

‘Who did you think it was?’

‘I think –’ Har­ry swal­lowed, know­ing how strange this was go­ing to sound. ‘I think it was my dad.’

Har­ry glanced up at Hermione and saw that her mouth was ful­ly open now. She was gaz­ing at him with a mix­ture of alarm and pity.

‘Har­ry, your dad’s – well – dead,’ she said qui­et­ly.

‘I know that,’ said Har­ry quick­ly.

‘You think you saw his ghost?’

‘I don’t know … no … he looked sol­id …’

‘But then –’

‘Maybe I was see­ing things,’ said Har­ry. ‘But … from what I could see … it looked like him … I’ve got pho­tos of him …’

Hermione was still look­ing at him as though wor­ried about his san­ity.

‘I know it sounds mad,’ said Har­ry flat­ly. He turned to look at Buck­beak, who was dig­ging his beak in­to the ground, ap­par­ent­ly search­ing for worms. But he wasn’t re­al­ly watch­ing Buck­beak.

He was think­ing about his fa­ther, and about his three old­est friends … Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs … Had all four of them been out in the grounds tonight? Worm­tail had reap­peared this evening when ev­ery­one had thought he was dead – was it so im­pos­si­ble his fa­ther had done the same? Had he been see­ing things across the lake? The fig­ure had been too far away to see dis­tinct­ly … yet he had felt sure, for a mo­ment, be­fore he’d lost con­scious­ness …

The leaves over­head rus­tled faint­ly in the breeze. The moon drift­ed in and out of sight be­hind the shift­ing clouds. Hermione sat with her face turned to­wards the Wil­low, wait­ing.

And then, at last, af­ter over an hour …

‘Here we come!’ Hermione whis­pered.

She and Har­ry got to their feet. Buck­beak raised his head. They saw Lupin, Ron and Pet­ti­grew clam­ber­ing awk­ward­ly out of the hole in the roots. Then came Hermione … then the un­con­scious Snape, drift­ing weird­ly up­wards. Next came Har­ry and Black. They all be­gan to walk to­wards the cas­tle.

Har­ry’s heart was start­ing to beat very fast. He glanced up at the sky. Any mo­ment now, that cloud was go­ing to move aside and show the moon …

‘Har­ry,’ Hermione mut­tered, as though she knew ex­act­ly what he was think­ing, ‘we’ve got to stay put. We mustn’t be seen. There’s noth­ing we can do …’

‘So we’re just go­ing to let Pet­ti­grew es­cape all over again …’ said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

‘How do you ex­pect to find a rat in the dark?’ snapped Hermione. ‘There’s noth­ing we can do! We came back to help Sir­ius. We’re not sup­posed to be do­ing any­thing else!’

‘All right!’

The moon slid out from be­hind its cloud. They saw the tiny fig­ures across the grounds stop. Then they saw move­ment –

‘There goes Lupin,’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘He’s trans­form­ing –’

‘Hermione!’ said Har­ry sud­den­ly. ‘We’ve got to move!’

‘We mustn’t, I keep telling you –’

‘Not to in­ter­fere! But Lupin’s go­ing to run in­to the For­est, right at us!’

Hermione gasped.

‘Quick!’ she moaned, dash­ing to un­tie Buck­beak. ‘Quick! Where are we go­ing to go? Where are we go­ing to hide? The De­men­tors will be com­ing any mo­ment –’

‘Back to Ha­grid’s!’ Har­ry said. ‘It’s emp­ty now – come on!’

They ran, fast as they could, Buck­beak can­ter­ing along be­hind them. They could hear the were­wolf howl­ing be­hind them …

The cab­in was in sight. Har­ry skid­ded to the door, wrenched it open and Hermione and Buck­beak flashed past him; Har­ry threw him­self in af­ter them and bolt­ed the door. Fang the boarhound barked loud­ly.

‘Shh, Fang, it’s us!’ said Hermione, hur­ry­ing over and scratch­ing his ears to qui­eten him. ‘That was re­al­ly close!’ she said to Har­ry.

‘Yeah …’

Har­ry was look­ing out of the win­dow. It was much hard­er to see what was go­ing on from here. Buck­beak seemed very hap­py to find him­self back in­side Ha­grid’s house. He lay down in front of the fire, fold­ed his wings con­tent­ed­ly and seemed ready for a good nap.

‘I think I’d bet­ter go out­side again, you know,’ said Har­ry slow­ly. ‘I can’t see what’s go­ing on – we won’t know when it’s time –’

Hermione looked up. Her ex­pres­sion was sus­pi­cious.

‘I’m not go­ing to try and in­ter­fere,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘But if we don’t see what’s go­ing on, how’re we go­ing to know when it’s time to res­cue Sir­ius?’

‘Well … OK, then … I’ll wait here with Buck­beak … but Har­ry, be care­ful – there’s a were­wolf out there – and the De­men­tors –’

Har­ry stepped out­side again and edged around the cab­in. He could hear yelp­ing in the dis­tance. That meant the De­men­tors were clos­ing in on Sir­ius … he and Hermione would be run­ning to him any mo­ment …

Har­ry stared out to­wards the lake, his heart do­ing a kind of drum-​roll in his chest. Who­ev­er had sent that Pa­tronus would be ap­pear­ing at any mo­ment.

For a frac­tion of a sec­ond he stood, ir­res­olute, in front of Ha­grid’s door. You must not be seen. But he didn’t want to be seen. He want­ed to do the see­ing … he had to know …

And there were the De­men­tors. They were emerg­ing out of the dark­ness from ev­ery di­rec­tion, glid­ing around the edges of the lake … they were mov­ing away from where Har­ry stood, to the op­po­site bank … he wouldn’t have to get near them …

Har­ry be­gan to run. He had no thought in his head ex­cept his fa­ther … If it was him … if it re­al­ly was him … he had to know, had to find out …

The lake was com­ing near­er and near­er, but there was no sign of any­body. On the op­po­site bank, he could see tiny glim­mers of sil­ver – his own at­tempts at a Pa­tronus –

There was a bush at the very edge of the wa­ter. Har­ry threw him­self be­hind it, peer­ing des­per­ate­ly through the leaves. On the op­po­site bank, the glim­mers of sil­ver were sud­den­ly ex­tin­guished. A ter­ri­fied ex­cite­ment shot through him – any mo­ment now –

‘Come on!’ he mut­tered, star­ing about. ‘Where are you? Dad, come on –’

But no one came. Har­ry raised his head to look at the cir­cle of De­men­tors across the lake. One of them was low­er­ing its hood. It was time for the res­cuer to ap­pear – but no one was com­ing to help this time –

And then it hit him – he un­der­stood. He hadn’t seen his fa­ther – he had seen him­self –

Har­ry flung him­self out from be­hind the bush and pulled out his wand.

‘EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!’ he yelled.

And out of the end of his wand burst, not a shape­less cloud of mist, but a blind­ing, daz­zling, sil­ver an­imal. He screwed up his eyes, try­ing to see what it was. It looked like a horse. It was gal­lop­ing silent­ly away from him, across the black sur­face of the lake. He saw it low­er its head and charge at the swarm­ing De­men­tors … now it was gal­lop­ing around and around the black shapes on the ground, and the De­men­tors were falling back, scat­ter­ing, re­treat­ing in­to the dark­ness … they were gone.

The Pa­tronus turned. It was can­ter­ing back to­wards Har­ry across the still sur­face of the wa­ter. It wasn’t a horse. It wasn’t a uni­corn, ei­ther. It was a stag. It was shin­ing bright­ly as the moon above … it was com­ing back to him …

It stopped on the bank. Its hooves made no mark on the soft ground as it stared at Har­ry with its large, sil­ver eyes. Slow­ly, it bowed its antlered head. And Har­ry re­alised …

‘Prongs,’ he whis­pered.

But as his trem­bling fin­ger­tips stretched to­wards the crea­ture, it van­ished.

Har­ry stood there, hand still out­stretched. Then, with a great leap of his heart, he heard hooves be­hind him – he whirled around and saw Hermione dash­ing to­wards him, drag­ging Buck­beak be­hind her.

‘What did you do?’ she said fierce­ly. ‘You said you were on­ly go­ing to keep a look­out!’

‘I just saved all our lives …’ said Har­ry. ‘Get be­hind here – be­hind this bush – I’ll ex­plain.’

Hermione lis­tened to what had just hap­pened with her mouth open yet again.

‘Did any­one see you?’

‘Yes, haven’t you been lis­ten­ing? I saw me but I thought I was my dad! It’s OK!’

‘Har­ry, I can’t be­lieve it – you con­jured up a Pa­tronus that drove away all those De­men­tors! That’s very, very ad­vanced mag­ic …’

‘I knew I could do it this time,’ said Har­ry, ‘be­cause I’d al­ready done it … Does that make sense?’

‘I don’t know – Har­ry, look at Snape!’

To­geth­er they peered around the bush at the oth­er bank. Snape had re­gained con­scious­ness. He was con­jur­ing stretch­ers and lift­ing the limp forms of Har­ry, Hermione and Black on­to them. A fourth stretch­er, no doubt bear­ing Ron, was al­ready float­ing at his side. Then, wand held out in front of him, he moved them away to­wards the cas­tle.

‘Right, it’s near­ly time,’ said Hermione tense­ly, look­ing at her watch. ‘We’ve got about forty-​five min­utes un­til Dum­ble­dore locks the door to the hos­pi­tal wing. We’ve got to res­cue Sir­ius and get back in­to the ward be­fore any­body re­alis­es we’re miss­ing …’

They wait­ed, watch­ing the mov­ing clouds re­flect­ed in the lake, while the bush next to them whis­pered in the breeze. Buck­beak, bored, was fer­ret­ing for worms again.

‘D’you reck­on he’s up there yet?’ said Har­ry, check­ing his watch. He looked up at the cas­tle, and be­gan count­ing the win­dows to the right of the West Tow­er.

‘Look!’ Hermione whis­pered. ‘Who’s that? Some­one’s com­ing back out of the cas­tle!’

Har­ry stared through the dark­ness. The man was hur­ry­ing across the grounds, to­wards one of the en­trances. Some­thing shiny glint­ed in his belt.

‘Mac­nair!’ said Har­ry. ‘The ex­ecu­tion­er! He’s gone to get the De­men­tors! This is it, Hermione –’

Hermione put her hands on Buck­beak’s back and Har­ry gave her a leg up. Then he placed his foot on one of the low­er branch­es of the bush and climbed up in front of her. He pulled Buck­beak’s rope back over his neck and tied it to the oth­er side of his col­lar like reins.

‘Ready?’ he whis­pered to Hermione. ‘You’d bet­ter hold on to me –’

He nudged Buck­beak’s sides with his heels.

Buck­beak soared straight in­to the dark air. Har­ry gripped his flanks with his knees, feel­ing the great wings ris­ing pow­er­ful­ly be­neath them. Hermione was hold­ing Har­ry very tight­ly around the waist; he could hear her mut­ter­ing, ‘Oh, no – I don’t like this – oh, I re­al­ly don’t like this –’

Har­ry urged Buck­beak for­wards. They were glid­ing qui­et­ly to­wards the up­per floors of the cas­tle … Har­ry pulled hard on the left-​hand side of the rope, and Buck­beak turned. Har­ry was try­ing to count the win­dows flash­ing past –

‘Whoa!’ he said, pulling back­wards as hard as he could.

Buck­beak slowed down and they found them­selves at a stop, un­less you count­ed the fact that they kept ris­ing up and down sev­er­al feet as he beat his wings to re­main air­borne.

‘He’s there!’ Har­ry said, spot­ting Sir­ius as they rose up be­side the win­dow. He reached out, and as Buck­beak’s wings fell, was able to tap sharply on the glass.

Black looked up. Har­ry saw his jaw drop. He leapt from his chair, hur­ried to the win­dow and tried to open it, but it was locked.

‘Stand back!’ Hermione called to him, and she took out her wand, still grip­ping the back of Har­ry’s robes with her left hand.

‘Alo­homo­ra!’

The win­dow sprang open.

‘How – how –?’ said Black weak­ly, star­ing at the Hip­pogriff.

‘Get on – there’s not much time,’ said Har­ry, grip­ping Buck­beak firm­ly on ei­ther side of his sleek neck to hold him steady. ‘You’ve got to get out of here – the De­men­tors are com­ing. Mac­nair’s gone to get them.’

Black placed a hand on ei­ther side of the win­dow-​frame and heaved his head and shoul­ders out of it. It was very lucky he was so thin. In sec­onds, he had man­aged to fling one leg over Buck­beak’s back, and pull him­self on­to the Hip­pogriff be­hind Hermione.

‘OK, Buck­beak, up!’ said Har­ry, shak­ing the rope. ‘Up to the tow­er – come on!’

The Hip­pogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and they were soar­ing up­wards again, high as the top of the West Tow­er. Buck­beak land­ed with a clat­ter on the bat­tle­ments and Har­ry and Hermione slid off him at once.

‘Sir­ius, you’d bet­ter go, quick,’ Har­ry pant­ed. ‘They’ll reach Flitwick’s of­fice any mo­ment, they’ll find out you’ve gone.’

Buck­beak pawed the ground, toss­ing his sharp head.

‘What hap­pened to the oth­er boy? Ron?’ said Sir­ius ur­gent­ly.

‘He’s go­ing to be OK – he’s still out of it, but Madam Pom­frey says she’ll be able to make him bet­ter. Quick – go!’

But Black was still star­ing down at Har­ry.

‘How can I ev­er thank –’

‘GO!’ Har­ry and Hermione shout­ed to­geth­er.

Black wheeled Buck­beak around, fac­ing the open sky.

‘We’ll see each oth­er again,’ he said. ‘You are – tru­ly your fa­ther’s son, Har­ry …’

He squeezed Buck­beak’s sides with his heels. Har­ry and Hermione jumped back as the enor­mous wings rose once more … the Hip­pogriff took off in­to the air … he and his rid­er be­came small­er and small­er as Har­ry gazed af­ter them … then a cloud drift­ed across the moon … they were gone.





Harry Potter And The Prisoner of Azkaban





CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


Owl Post Again



‘Har­ry!’

Hermione was tug­ging at his sleeve, star­ing at her watch. ‘We’ve got ex­act­ly ten min­utes to get back down to the hos­pi­tal wing with­out any­body see­ing us – be­fore Dum­ble­dore locks the door –’

‘OK,’ said Har­ry, wrench­ing his gaze from the sky, ‘let’s go …’

They slipped through the door­way be­hind them and down a tight­ly spi­ralling stone stair­case. As they reached the bot­tom of it, they heard voic­es. They flat­tened them­selves against the wall and lis­tened. It sound­ed like Fudge and Snape. They were walk­ing quick­ly along the cor­ri­dor at the foot of the stair­case.

‘… on­ly hope Dum­ble­dore’s not go­ing to make dif­fi­cul­ties,’ Snape was say­ing. ‘The Kiss will be per­formed im­me­di­ate­ly?’

‘As soon as Mac­nair re­turns with the De­men­tors. This whole Black af­fair has been high­ly em­bar­rass­ing. I can’t tell you how much I’m look­ing for­ward to in­form­ing the Dai­ly Prophet that we’ve got him at last … I dare­say they’ll want to in­ter­view you, Snape … and once young Har­ry’s back in his right mind, I ex­pect he’ll want to tell the Prophet ex­act­ly how you saved him …’

Har­ry clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of Snape’s smirk as he and Fudge passed Har­ry and Hermione’s hid­ing place. Their foot­steps died away. Har­ry and Hermione wait­ed a few mo­ments to make sure they’d re­al­ly gone, then start­ed to run in the op­po­site di­rec­tion. Down one stair­case, then an­oth­er, along a new cor­ri­dor – then they heard a cack­ling ahead.

‘Peeves!’ Har­ry mut­tered, grab­bing Hermione’s wrist. ‘In here!’

They tore in­to a de­sert­ed class­room to their left just in time. Peeves seemed to be bounc­ing along the cor­ri­dor in tear­ing spir­its, laugh­ing his head off.

‘Oh, he’s hor­ri­ble,’ whis­pered Hermione, her ear to the door. ‘I bet he’s all ex­cit­ed be­cause the De­men­tors are go­ing to fin­ish Sir­ius …’ She checked her watch. ‘Three min­utes, Har­ry!’

They wait­ed un­til Peeves’s gloat­ing voice had fad­ed in­to the dis­tance, then slid back out of the room and broke in­to a run again.

‘Hermione – what’ll hap­pen – if we don’t get back in­side – be­fore Dum­ble­dore locks the door?’ Har­ry pant­ed.

‘I don’t want to think about it!’ Hermione moaned, check­ing her watch again. ‘One minute!’

They had reached the end of the cor­ri­dor with the hos­pi­tal-​wing en­trance. ‘OK – I can hear Dum­ble­dore,’ said Hermione tense­ly. ‘Come on, Har­ry!’

They crept along the cor­ri­dor. The door opened. Dum­ble­dore’s back ap­peared.

‘I am go­ing to lock you in,’ they heard him say­ing. ‘It is five min­utes to mid­night. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck.’

Dum­ble­dore backed out of the room, closed the door and took out his wand to mag­ical­ly lock it. Pan­ick­ing, Har­ry and Hermione ran for­wards. Dum­ble­dore looked up, and a wide smile ap­peared un­der the long sil­ver mous­tache. ‘Well?’ he said qui­et­ly.

‘We did it!’ said Har­ry breath­less­ly. ‘Sir­ius has gone, on Buck­beak …’

Dum­ble­dore beamed at them.

‘Well done. I think –’ he lis­tened in­tent­ly for any sound with­in the hos­pi­tal wing. ‘Yes, I think you’ve gone, too. Get in­side – I’ll lock you in –’

Har­ry and Hermione slipped back in­side the dor­mi­to­ry. It was emp­ty ex­cept for Ron, who was still ly­ing mo­tion­less in the end bed. As the lock clicked be­hind them, Har­ry and Hermione crept back to their own beds, Hermione tuck­ing the Time-​Turn­er back un­der her robes. Next mo­ment, Madam Pom­frey had come strid­ing back out of her of­fice.

‘Did I hear the Head­mas­ter leav­ing? Am I al­lowed to look af­ter my pa­tients now?’

She was in a very bad mood. Har­ry and Hermione thought it best to ac­cept their choco­late qui­et­ly. Madam Pom­frey stood over them, mak­ing sure they ate it. But Har­ry could hard­ly swal­low. He and Hermione were wait­ing, lis­ten­ing, their nerves jan­gling … And then, as they both took a fourth piece of choco­late from Madam Pom­frey, they heard a dis­tant roar of fury echo­ing from some­where above them …

‘What was that?’ said Madam Pom­frey in alarm.

Now they could hear an­gry voic­es, grow­ing loud­er and loud­er. Madam Pom­frey was star­ing at the door.

‘Re­al­ly – they’ll wake ev­ery­body up! What do they think they’re do­ing?’

Har­ry was try­ing to hear what the voic­es were say­ing. They were draw­ing near­er –

‘He must have Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, Severus, we should have left some­body in the room with him. When this gets out –’

‘HE DIDN’T DIS­AP­PA­RATE!’ Snape roared, now very close at hand. ‘YOU CAN’T AP­PA­RATE OR DIS­AP­PA­RATE IN­SIDE THIS CAS­TLE! THIS – HAS – SOME­THING – TO – DO – WITH – POT­TER!’

‘Severus – be rea­son­able – Har­ry has been locked up –’

BAM.

The door of the hos­pi­tal wing burst open.

Fudge, Snape and Dum­ble­dore came strid­ing in­to the ward. Dum­ble­dore alone looked calm. In­deed, he looked as though he was quite en­joy­ing him­self. Fudge ap­peared an­gry. But Snape was be­side him­self.

‘OUT WITH IT, POT­TER!’ he bel­lowed. ‘WHAT DID YOU DO?’

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape!’ shrieked Madam Pom­frey. ‘Con­trol your­self!’

‘See here, Snape, be rea­son­able,’ said Fudge. ‘This door’s been locked, we just saw –’

‘THEY HELPED HIM ES­CAPE, I KNOW IT!’ Snape howled, point­ing at Har­ry and Hermione. His face was twist­ed, spit was fly­ing from his mouth.

‘Calm down, man!’ Fudge barked. ‘You’re talk­ing non­sense!’

‘YOU DON’T KNOW POT­TER!’ shrieked Snape. ‘HE DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT –’

‘That will do, Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘Think about what you are say­ing. This door has been locked since I left the ward ten min­utes ago. Madam Pom­frey, have these stu­dents left their beds?’

‘Of course not!’ said Madam Pom­frey, bristling. ‘I’ve been with them ev­er since you left!’

‘Well, there you have it, Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. ‘Un­less you are sug­gest­ing that Har­ry and Hermione are able to be in two places at once, I’m afraid I don’t see any point in trou­bling them fur­ther.’

Snape stood there, seething, star­ing from Fudge, who looked thor­ough­ly shocked at his be­haviour, to Dum­ble­dore, whose eyes were twin­kling be­hind his glass­es. Snape whirled about, robes swish­ing be­hind him, and stormed out of the ward.

‘Fel­low seems quite un­bal­anced,’ said Fudge, star­ing af­ter him. ‘I’d watch out for him, if I were you, Dum­ble­dore.’

‘Oh, he’s not un­bal­anced,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘He’s just suf­fered a se­vere dis­ap­point­ment.’

‘He’s not the on­ly one!’ puffed Fudge. ‘The Dai­ly Prophet’s go­ing to have a field day! We had Black cor­nered and he slipped through our fin­gers yet again! All it needs now is for the sto­ry of that Hip­pogriffs es­cape to get out, and I’ll be a laugh­ing stock! Well … I’d bet­ter go and no­ti­fy the Min­istry …’

‘And the De­men­tors?’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘They’ll be re­moved from the school, I trust?’

‘Oh, yes, they’ll have to go,’ said Fudge, run­ning his fin­gers dis­tract­ed­ly through his hair. ‘Nev­er dreamed they’d at­tempt to ad­min­is­ter the Kiss on an in­no­cent boy … com­plete­ly out of con­trol … No, I’ll have them packed off back to Azk­aban tonight. Per­haps we should think about drag­ons at the school en­trance …’

‘Ha­grid would like that,’ said Dum­ble­dore, with a swift smile at Har­ry and Hermione. As he and Fudge left the dor­mi­to­ry, Madam Pom­frey hur­ried to the door and locked it again. Mut­ter­ing an­gri­ly to her­self, she head­ed back to her of­fice.

There was a low moan from the oth­er end of the ward. Ron had wo­ken up. They could see him sit­ting up, rub­bing his head, look­ing around.

‘What – what hap­pened?’ he groaned. ‘Har­ry? Why are we in here? Where’s Sir­ius? Where’s Lupin? What’s go­ing on?’

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er.

‘You ex­plain,’ said Har­ry, help­ing him­self to some more choco­late.

*

When Har­ry, Ron and Hermione left the hos­pi­tal wing at noon next day, it was to find an al­most de­sert­ed cas­tle. The swel­ter­ing heat and the end of the ex­ams meant that ev­ery­one was tak­ing full ad­van­tage of an­oth­er Hogsmeade vis­it. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione felt like go­ing, how­ev­er, so they and Har­ry wan­dered in­to the grounds, still talk­ing about the ex­traor­di­nary events of the pre­vi­ous night and won­der­ing where Sir­ius and Buck­beak were now. Sit­ting near the lake, watch­ing the gi­ant squid wav­ing its ten­ta­cles lazi­ly above the wa­ter, Har­ry lost the thread of the con­ver­sa­tion as he looked across to the op­po­site bank. The stag had gal­loped to­wards him from there just last night …

A shad­ow fell across them and they looked up to see a very bleary-​eyed Ha­grid, mop­ping his sweaty face with one of his table­cloth-​sized hand­ker­chiefs and beam­ing down at them.

‘Know I shouldn’ feel hap­py, af­ter wha’ hap­pened las’ night,’ he said. ‘I mean, Black es­capin’ again, an’ ev­ery­thin’ – but guess what?’

‘What?’ they said, pre­tend­ing to look cu­ri­ous.

‘Beaky! He es­caped! He’s free! Bin cel­ebratin’ all night!’

‘That’s won­der­ful!’ said Hermione, giv­ing Ron a re­prov­ing look be­cause he looked as though he was close to laugh­ing.

‘Yeah … can’t’ve tied him up prop­er­ly,’ said Ha­grid, gaz­ing hap­pi­ly out over the grounds. ‘I was wor­ried this mornin’, mind … thought he migh­ta met Pro­fes­sor Lupin in the grounds, but Lupin says he nev­er ate any­thin’ las’ night …’

‘What?’ said Har­ry quick­ly.

‘Blimey, haven’ yeh heard?’ said Ha­grid, his smile fad­ing a lit­tle. He low­ered his voice, even though there was no­body in sight. ‘Er – Snape told all the Slytherins this mornin’ … thought ev­ery­one’d know by now … Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s a were­wolf, see. An’ he was loose in the grounds las’ night. He’s packin’ now, o’ course.’

‘He’s pack­ing?’ said Har­ry, alarmed. ‘Why?’

‘Leav­in’, isn’ he?’ said Ha­grid, look­ing sur­prised that Har­ry had to ask. ‘Re­signed firs’ thing this mornin’. Says he can’ risk it hap­penin’ again.’

Har­ry scram­bled to his feet.

‘I’m go­ing to see him,’ he said to Ron and Hermione.

‘But if he’s re­signed –’

‘– doesn’t sound like there’s any­thing we can do –’

‘I don’t care. I still want to see him. I’ll meet you back here.’

*

Lupin’s of­fice door was open. He had al­ready packed most of his things. The Grindy­low’s emp­ty tank stood next to his bat­tered old suit­case, which was open and near­ly full. Lupin was bend­ing over some­thing on his desk, and on­ly looked up when Har­ry knocked on the door.

‘I saw you com­ing,’ said Lupin, smil­ing. He point­ed to the parch­ment he had been por­ing over. It was the Ma­raud­er’s Map.

‘I just saw Ha­grid,’ said Har­ry. ‘And he said you’d re­signed. It’s not true, is it?’

‘I’m afraid it is,’ said Lupin. He start­ed open­ing his desk draw­ers and tak­ing out the con­tents.

‘Why?’ said Har­ry. ‘The Min­istry of Mag­ic don’t think you were help­ing Sir­ius, do they?’

Lupin crossed to the door and closed it be­hind Har­ry.

‘No. Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore man­aged to con­vince Fudge that I was try­ing to save your lives.’ He sighed. ‘That was the fi­nal straw for Severus. I think the loss of the Or­der of Mer­lin hit him hard. So he – er – ac­ci­den­tal­ly let slip that I am a were­wolf this morn­ing at break­fast.’

‘You’re not leav­ing just be­cause of that!’ said Har­ry.

Lupin smiled wry­ly.

‘This time to­mor­row, the owls will start ar­riv­ing from par­ents – they will not want a were­wolf teach­ing their chil­dren, Har­ry. And af­ter last night, I see their point. I could have bit­ten any of you … that must nev­er hap­pen again.’

‘You’re the best De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er we’ve ev­er had!’ said Har­ry. ‘Don’t go!’

Lupin shook his head and didn’t speak. He car­ried on emp­ty­ing his draw­ers. Then, while Har­ry was try­ing to think of a good ar­gu­ment to make him stay, Lupin said, ‘From what the Head­mas­ter told me this morn­ing, you saved a lot of lives last night, Har­ry. If I’m proud of any­thing, it’s how much you’ve learned. Tell me about your Pa­tronus.’

‘How d’you know about that?’ said Har­ry, dis­tract­ed.

‘What else could have driv­en the De­men­tors back?’

Har­ry told Lupin what had hap­pened. When he’d fin­ished, Lupin was smil­ing again.

‘Yes, your fa­ther was al­ways a stag when he trans­formed,’ he said. ‘You guessed right … that’s why we called him Prongs.’

Lupin threw his last few books in­to his case, closed the desk draw­ers and turned to look at Har­ry.

‘Here – I brought this from the Shriek­ing Shack last night,’ he said, hand­ing Har­ry back the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. ‘And …’ he hes­itat­ed, then held out the Ma­raud­er’s Map, too. ‘I am no longer your teach­er, so I don’t feel guilty about giv­ing you this back as well. It’s no use to me, and I dare­say you, Ron and Hermione will find us­es for it.’

Har­ry took the map and grinned.

‘You told me Moony, Worm­tail, Pad­foot and Prongs would’ve want­ed to lure me out of school … you said they’d have thought it was fun­ny.’

‘And so we would have done,’ said Lupin, now reach­ing down to close his case. ‘I have no hes­ita­tion in say­ing that James would have been high­ly dis­ap­point­ed if his son had nev­er found any of the se­cret pas­sages out of the cas­tle.’

There was a knock on the door. Har­ry hasti­ly stuffed the Ma­raud­er’s Map and the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in­to his pock­et.

It was Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore. He didn’t look sur­prised to see Har­ry there.

‘Your car­riage is at the gates, Re­mus,’ he said.

‘Thank you, Head­mas­ter.’

Lupin picked up his old suit­case and the emp­ty Grindy­low tank.

‘Well – good­bye, Har­ry’ he said, smil­ing. ‘It has been a re­al plea­sure teach­ing you. I feel sure we’ll meet again some time. Head­mas­ter, there is no need to see me to the gates, I can man­age …’

Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Lupin want­ed to leave as quick­ly as pos­si­ble.

‘Good­bye, then, Re­mus,’ said Dum­ble­dore sober­ly. Lupin shift­ed the Grindy­low tank slight­ly so that he and Dum­ble­dore could shake hands. Then, with a fi­nal nod to Har­ry, and a swift smile, Lupin left the of­fice.

Har­ry sat down in his va­cat­ed chair, star­ing glum­ly at the floor. He heard the door close and looked up. Dum­ble­dore was still there.

‘Why so mis­er­able, Har­ry?’ he said qui­et­ly. ‘You should be very proud of your­self af­ter last night.’

‘It didn’t make any dif­fer­ence,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. ‘Pet­ti­grew got away.’

‘Didn’t make any dif­fer­ence?’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘It made all the dif­fer­ence in the world, Har­ry. You helped un­cov­er the truth. You saved an in­no­cent man from a ter­ri­ble fate.’

Ter­ri­ble. Some­thing stirred in Har­ry’s mem­ory. Greater and more ter­ri­ble than ev­er be­fore … Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s pre­dic­tion!

‘Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore – yes­ter­day, when I was hav­ing my Div­ina­tion ex­am, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney went very – very strange.’

‘In­deed?’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Er – stranger than usu­al, you mean?’

‘Yes … her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said … she said Volde­mort’s ser­vant was go­ing to set out to re­turn to him be­fore mid­night … she said the ser­vant would help him come back to pow­er.’ Har­ry stared up at Dum­ble­dore. ‘And then she sort of be­came nor­mal again, and she couldn’t re­mem­ber any­thing she’d said. Was it – was she mak­ing a re­al pre­dic­tion?’

Dum­ble­dore looked mild­ly im­pressed.

‘Do you know, Har­ry, I think she might have been,’ he said thought­ful­ly. ‘Who’d have thought it? That brings her to­tal of re­al pre­dic­tions up to two. I should of­fer her a pay rise …’

‘But –’ Har­ry looked at him, aghast. How could Dum­ble­dore take this so calm­ly?

‘But – I stopped Sir­ius and Pro­fes­sor Lupin killing Pet­ti­grew! That makes it my fault, if Volde­mort comes back!’

‘It does not,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘Hasn’t your ex­pe­ri­ence with the Time-​Turn­er taught you any­thing, Har­ry? The con­se­quences of our ac­tions are al­ways so com­pli­cat­ed, so di­verse, that pre­dict­ing the fu­ture is a very dif­fi­cult busi­ness in­deed … Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, bless her, is liv­ing proof of that. You did a very no­ble thing, in sav­ing Pet­ti­grew’s life.’

‘But if he helps Volde­mort back to pow­er –!’

‘Pet­ti­grew owes his life to you. You have sent Volde­mort a deputy who is in your debt. When one wiz­ard saves an­oth­er wiz­ard’s life, it cre­ates a cer­tain bond be­tween them … and I’m much mis­tak­en if Volde­mort wants his ser­vant in the debt of Har­ry Pot­ter.’

‘I don’t want a bond with Pet­ti­grew!’ said Har­ry. ‘He be­trayed my par­ents!’

‘This is mag­ic at its deep­est, its most im­pen­etra­ble, Har­ry. But trust me … the time may come when you will be very glad you saved Pet­ti­grew’s life.’

Har­ry couldn’t imag­ine when that would be. Dum­ble­dore looked as though he knew what Har­ry was think­ing.

‘I knew your fa­ther very well, both at Hog­warts and lat­er, Har­ry,’ he said gen­tly. ‘He would have saved Pet­ti­grew too, I am sure of it.’

Har­ry looked up at him. Dum­ble­dore wouldn’t laugh – he could tell Dum­ble­dore …

‘Last night … I thought it was my dad who’d con­jured my Pa­tronus. I mean, when I saw my­self across the lake … I thought I was see­ing him.’

‘An easy mis­take to make,’ said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly. ‘I ex­pect you’re tired of hear­ing it, but you do look ex­traor­di­nar­ily like James. Ex­cept for your eyes … you have your moth­er’s eyes.’

Har­ry shook his head.

‘It was stupid, think­ing it was him,’ he mut­tered. ‘I mean, I knew he was dead.’

‘You think the dead we have loved ev­er tru­ly leave us? You think that we don’t re­call them more clear­ly than ev­er in times of great trou­ble? Your fa­ther is alive in you, Har­ry, and shows him­self most plain­ly when you have need of him. How else could you pro­duce that par­tic­ular Pa­tronus? Prongs rode again last night.’

It took a mo­ment for Har­ry to re­alise what Dum­ble­dore had said.

‘Sir­ius told me all about how they be­came An­ima­gi last night,’ said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. ‘An ex­traor­di­nary achieve­ment – not least, keep­ing it qui­et from me. And then I re­mem­bered the most un­usu­al form your Pa­tronus took, when it charged Mr Mal­foy down at your Quid­ditch match against Raven­claw. So you did see your fa­ther last night, Har­ry … you found him in­side your­self.’

And Dum­ble­dore left the of­fice, leav­ing Har­ry to his very con­fused thoughts.

*

No­body at Hog­warts knew the truth of what had hap­pened the night that Sir­ius, Buck­beak and Pet­ti­grew had van­ished ex­cept Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore. As the end of term ap­proached, Har­ry heard many dif­fer­ent the­ories about what had re­al­ly hap­pened, but none of them came close to the truth.

Mal­foy was fu­ri­ous about Buck­beak. He was con­vinced that Ha­grid had found a way of smug­gling the Hip­pogriff to safe­ty, and seemed out­raged that he and his fa­ther had been out­wit­ted by a game­keep­er. Per­cy Weasley, mean­while, had much to say on the sub­ject of Sir­ius’s es­cape.

‘If I man­age to get in­to the Min­istry, I’ll have a lot of pro­pos­als to make about Mag­ical Law En­force­ment!’ he told the on­ly per­son who would lis­ten – his girl­friend, Pene­lope.

Though the weath­er was per­fect, though the at­mo­sphere was so cheer­ful, though he knew they had achieved the near im­pos­si­ble in help­ing Sir­ius to free­dom, Har­ry had nev­er ap­proached the end of a school year in worse spir­its.

He cer­tain­ly wasn’t the on­ly one who was sor­ry to see Pro­fes­sor Lupin go. The whole of Har­ry’s De­fence Against the Dark Arts class were mis­er­able about his res­ig­na­tion.

‘Won­der what they’ll give us next year?’ said Sea­mus Finni­gan gloomi­ly.

‘Maybe a vam­pire,’ sug­gest­ed Dean Thomas hope­ful­ly.

It wasn’t on­ly Pro­fes­sor Lupin’s de­par­ture that was weigh­ing on Har­ry’s mind. He couldn’t help think­ing a lot about Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s pre­dic­tion. He kept won­der­ing where Pet­ti­grew was now, whether he had sought sanc­tu­ary with Volde­mort yet. But the thing that was low­er­ing Har­ry’s spir­its most of all was the prospect of re­turn­ing to the Durs­leys. For maybe half an hour, a glo­ri­ous half-​hour, he had be­lieved he would be liv­ing with Sir­ius from now on … his par­ents’ best friend … it would have been the next best thing to hav­ing his own fa­ther back. And while no news of Sir­ius was def­inite­ly good news, be­cause it meant he had suc­cess­ful­ly gone in­to hid­ing, Har­ry couldn’t help feel­ing mis­er­able when he thought of the home he might have had, and the fact that it was now im­pos­si­ble.

The ex­am re­sults came out on the last day of term. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had passed ev­ery sub­ject. Har­ry was amazed that he had got through Po­tions. He had a shrewd sus­pi­cion that Dum­ble­dore had stepped in to stop Snape fail­ing him on pur­pose. Snape’s be­haviour to­wards Har­ry over the past week had been quite alarm­ing. Har­ry wouldn’t have thought it pos­si­ble that Snape’s dis­like for him could in­crease, but it cer­tain­ly had done. A mus­cle twitched un­pleas­ant­ly at the cor­ner of Snape’s thin mouth ev­ery time he looked at Har­ry, and he was con­stant­ly flex­ing his fin­gers, as though itch­ing to place them around Har­ry’s throat.

Per­cy had got his top-​grade NEWTs; Fred and George had scraped a hand­ful of OWLs each. Gryffind­or house, mean­while, large­ly thanks to their spec­tac­ular per­for­mance in the Quid­ditch Cup, had won the House Cham­pi­onship for the third year run­ning. This meant that the end-​of-​term feast took place amid dec­ora­tions of scar­let and gold, and that the Gryffind­or ta­ble was the nois­iest of the lot, as ev­ery­body cel­ebrat­ed. Even Har­ry man­aged to for­get about the jour­ney back to the Durs­leys next day as he ate, drank, talked and laughed with the rest.

*

As the Hog­warts Ex­press pulled out of the sta­tion next morn­ing, Hermione gave Har­ry and Ron some sur­pris­ing news.

‘I went to see Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall this morn­ing, just be­fore break­fast. I’ve de­cid­ed to drop Mug­gle Stud­ies.’

‘But you passed your ex­am with three hun­dred and twen­ty per cent!’ said Ron.

‘I know,’ sighed Hermione, ‘but I can’t stand an­oth­er year like this one. That Time-​Turn­er, it was driv­ing me mad. I’ve hand­ed it in. With­out Mug­gle Stud­ies and Div­ina­tion, I’ll be able to have a nor­mal timetable again.’

‘I still can’t be­lieve you didn’t tell us about it,’ said Ron grumpi­ly. ‘We’re sup­posed to be your friends.’

‘I promised I wouldn’t tell any­one,’ said Hermione severe­ly. She looked around at Har­ry, who was watch­ing Hog­warts dis­ap­pear from view be­hind a moun­tain. Two whole months be­fore he’d see it again …

‘Oh, cheer up, Har­ry!’ said Hermione sad­ly.

‘I’m OK,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘Just think­ing about the hol­idays.’

‘Yeah, I’ve been think­ing about them, too,’ said Ron. ‘Har­ry, you’ve got to come and stay with us. I’ll fix it up with Mum and Dad, then I’ll call you. I know how to use a fel­ly tone now –’

‘A tele­phone, Ron,’ said Hermione. ‘Hon­est­ly, you should take Mug­gle Stud­ies next year …’

Ron ig­nored her.

‘It’s the Quid­ditch World Cup this sum­mer! How about it, Har­ry? Come and stay, and we’ll go and see it! Dad can usu­al­ly get tick­ets from work.’

This pro­pos­al had the ef­fect of cheer­ing Har­ry up a great deal.

‘Yeah … I bet the Durs­leys’d be pleased to let me come … es­pe­cial­ly af­ter what I did to Aunt Marge …’

Feel­ing con­sid­er­ably more cheer­ful, Har­ry joined Ron and Hermione in sev­er­al games of Ex­plod­ing Snap, and when the witch with the tea trol­ley ar­rived, he bought him­self a very large lunch, though noth­ing with choco­late in it.

But it was late in the af­ter­noon be­fore the thing that made him tru­ly hap­py turned up …

‘Har­ry,’ said Hermione sud­den­ly, peer­ing over his shoul­der. ‘What’s that thing out­side your win­dow?’

Har­ry turned to look out­side. Some­thing very small and grey was bob­bing in and out of sight be­yond the glass. He stood up for a bet­ter look and saw that it was a tiny owl, car­ry­ing a let­ter which was much too big for it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept tum­bling over in the air, buf­fet­ed this way and that in the train’s slip­stream. Har­ry quick­ly pulled down the win­dow, stretched out his arm and caught it. It felt like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it care­ful­ly in­side. The owl dropped its let­ter on­to Har­ry’s seat and be­gan zoom­ing around their com­part­ment, ap­par­ent­ly very pleased with it­self for ac­com­plish­ing its task. Hed­wig clicked her beak with a sort of dig­ni­fied dis­ap­proval. Crook­shanks sat up in his seat, fol­low­ing the owl with his great yel­low eyes. Ron, notic­ing this, snatched the owl safe­ly out of harm’s way.

Har­ry picked up the let­ter. It was ad­dressed to him. He ripped open the let­ter and shout­ed, ‘It’s from Sir­ius!’

‘What?’ said Ron and Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly. ‘Read it aloud!’



Dear Har­ry,

I hope this finds you be­fore you reach your aunt and un­cle. I don’t know whether they’re used to owl post.

Buck­beak and I are in hid­ing. I won’t tell you where, in case this falls in­to the wrong hands. I have some doubt about the owl’s re­li­abil­ity, but he is the best I could find, and he did seem ea­ger for the job.

I be­lieve the De­men­tors are still search­ing for me, but they haven’t a hope of find­ing me here. I am plan­ning to al­low some Mug­gles to glimpse me soon, a long way from Hog­warts, so that the se­cu­ri­ty on the cas­tle will be lift­ed.

There is some­thing I nev­er got round to telling you dur­ing our brief meet­ing. It was I who sent you the Fire­bolt –



‘Ha!’ said Hermione tri­umphant­ly. ‘See! I told you it was from him!’

‘Yes, but he hadn’t jinxed it, had he?’ said Ron. ‘Ouch!’

The tiny owl, now hoot­ing hap­pi­ly in his hand, had nib­bled one of his fin­gers in what it seemed to think was an af­fec­tion­ate way.



Crook­shanks took the or­der to the Owl Of­fice for me. I used your name but told them to take the gold from Gringotts vault num­ber sev­en hun­dred and eleven – my own. Please con­sid­er it as thir­teen birth­days’ worth of presents from your god­fa­ther.

I would al­so like to apol­ogise for the fright I think I gave you, that night last year when you left your un­cle’s house. I had on­ly hoped to get a glimpse of you be­fore start­ing my jour­ney north, but I think the sight of me alarmed you.

I am en­clos­ing some­thing else for you, which I think will make your next year at Hog­warts more en­joy­able.

If ev­er you need me, send word. Your owl will find me.

I’ll write again soon.

Sir­ius



Har­ry looked ea­ger­ly in­side the en­ve­lope. There was an­oth­er piece of parch­ment in there. He read it through quick­ly and felt sud­den­ly as warm and con­tent­ed as though he’d swal­lowed a bot­tle of hot But­ter­beer in one go.



I, Sir­ius Black, Har­ry Pot­ter’s god­fa­ther, here­by give him per­mis­sion to vis­it Hogsmeade at week­ends.



‘That’ll be good enough for Dum­ble­dore!’ said Har­ry hap­pi­ly. He looked back at Sir­ius’s let­ter. ‘Hang on, there’s a PS …



I thought your friend Ron might like to keep this owl, as it’s my fault he no longer has a rat.



Ron’s eyes widened. The minute owl was still hoot­ing ex­cit­ed­ly.

‘Keep him?’ he said un­cer­tain­ly. He looked close­ly at the owl for a mo­ment, then, to Har­ry and Hermione’s great sur­prise, he held him out for Crook­shanks to sniff.

‘What d’you reck­on?’ Ron asked the cat. ‘Def­inite­ly an owl?’

Crook­shanks purred.

‘That’s good enough for me,’ said Ron hap­pi­ly. ‘He’s mine.’

Har­ry read and re-​read the let­ter from Sir­ius all the way back in­to King’s Cross Sta­tion. It was still clutched tight­ly in his hand as he, Ron and Hermione stepped back through the bar­ri­er of plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters. Har­ry spot­ted Un­cle Ver­non at once. He was stand­ing a good dis­tance from Mr and Mrs Weasley, eye­ing them sus­pi­cious­ly, and when Mrs Weasley hugged Har­ry in greet­ing, his worst sus­pi­cions about them seemed con­firmed.

‘I’ll call about the World Cup!’ Ron yelled af­ter Har­ry, as Har­ry bid him and Hermione good­bye, then wheeled the trol­ley bear­ing his trunk and Hed­wig’s cage to­wards Un­cle Ver­non, who greet­ed him in usu­al fash­ion.

‘What’s that?’ he snarled, star­ing at the en­ve­lope Har­ry was still clutch­ing in his hand. ‘If it’s an­oth­er form for me to sign, you’ve got an­oth­er –’

‘It’s not,’ said Har­ry cheer­ful­ly. ‘It’s a let­ter from my god­fa­ther.’

‘God­fa­ther?’ splut­tered Un­cle Ver­non. ‘You haven’t got a god­fa­ther!’

‘Yes, I have,’ said Har­ry bright­ly. ‘He was my mum and dad’s best friend. He’s a con­vict­ed mur­der­er, but he’s bro­ken out of wiz­ard prison and he’s on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though … keep up with my news … check I’m hap­py …’

And grin­ning broad­ly at the look of hor­ror on Un­cle Ver­non’s face, Har­ry set off to­wards the sta­tion ex­it, Hed­wig rat­tling along in front of him, for what looked like a much bet­ter sum­mer than the last.





