Chapter 1: The Other Minister


It was near­ing mid­night and the Prime Min­is­ter was sit­ting alone in his of­fice, read­ing a long memo that was slip­ping through his brain with­out leav­ing the slight­est trace of mean­ing be­hind. He was wait­ing for a call from the Pres­ident of a far dis­tant coun­try, and be­tween won­der­ing when the wretched man would tele­phone, and try­ing to sup­press un­pleas­ant mem­ories of what had been a very long, tir­ing, and dif­fi­cult week, there was not much space in his head for any­thing else. The more he at­tempt­ed to fo­cus on the print on the page be­fore him, the more clear­ly the Prime Min­is­ter could see the gloat­ing face of one of his po­lit­ical op­po­nents. This par­tic­ular op­po­nent had ap­peared on the news that very day, not on­ly to enu­mer­ate all the ter­ri­ble things that had hap­pened in the last week (as though any­one need­ed re­mind­ing) but al­so to ex­plain why each and ev­ery one of them was the gov­ern­ment’s fault.

The Prime Min­is­ter’s pulse quick­ened at the very thought of these ac­cu­sa­tions, for they were nei­ther fair nor true. How on earth was his gov­ern­ment sup­posed to have stopped that bridge col­laps­ing? It was out­ra­geous for any­body to sug­gest that they were not spend­ing enough on bridges. The bridge was few­er than ten years old, and the best ex­perts were at a loss to ex­plain why it had snapped clean­ly in two, send­ing a dozen cars in­to the wa­tery depths of the riv­er be­low. And how dare any­one sug­gest that it was lack of po­lice­men that had re­sult­ed in those two very nasty and wellpub­li­cized mur­ders? Or that the gov­ern­ment should have some­how fore­seen the freak hur­ri­cane in the West Coun­try that had caused so much dam­age to both peo­ple and prop­er­ty? And was it his fault that one of his Ju­nior Min­is­ters, Her­bert Chor­ley, had cho­sen this week to act so pe­cu­liar­ly that he was now go­ing to be spend­ing a lot more time with his fam­ily?

“A grim mood has gripped the coun­try,” the op­po­nent had con­clud­ed, bare­ly con­ceal­ing his own broad grin.

And un­for­tu­nate­ly, this was per­fect­ly true. The Prime Min­is­ter felt it him­self; peo­ple re­al­ly did seem more mis­er­able than usu­al. Even the weath­er was dis­mal; all this chilly mist in the mid­dle of Ju­ly… It wasn’t right, it wasn’t nor­mal…

He turned over the sec­ond page of the memo, saw how much longer it went on, and gave it up as a bad job. Stretch­ing his arms above his head he looked around his of­fice mourn­ful­ly. It was a hand­some room, with a fine mar­ble fire­place fac­ing the long sash win­dows, firm­ly closed against the un­sea­son­able chill. With a slight shiv­er, the Prime Min­is­ter got up and moved over to the win­dow, look­ing out at the thin mist that was press­ing it­self against the glass. It was then, as he stood with his back to the room, that he heard a soft cough be­hind him.

He froze, nose to nose with his own scared­look­ing re­flec­tion in the dark glass. He knew that cough. He had heard it be­fore. He turned very slow­ly to face the emp­ty room.

“Hel­lo?” he said, try­ing to sound braver than he felt.

For a brief mo­ment he al­lowed him­self the im­pos­si­ble hope that no­body would an­swer him. How­ev­er, a voice re­spond­ed at once, a crisp, de­ci­sive voice that sound­ed as though it were read­ing a pre­pared state­ment. It was com­ing — as the Prime Min­is­ter had known at the first cough — from the frog­like lit­tle man wear­ing a long sil­ver wig who was de­pict­ed in a small, dirty oil paint­ing in the far cor­ner of the room.

“To the Prime Min­is­ter of Mug­gles. Ur­gent we meet. Kind­ly re­spond im­me­di­ate­ly. Sin­cere­ly, Fudge.”

The man in the paint­ing looked in­quir­ing­ly at the Prime Min­is­ter.

“Er,” said the Prime Min­is­ter, “lis­ten… It’s not a very good time for me… I’m wait­ing for a tele­phone call, you see… from the Pres­ident of–“

“That can be re­ar­ranged,” said the por­trait at once. The Prime Min­is­ter’s heart sank. He had been afraid of that.

“But I re­al­ly was rather hop­ing to speak–“

“We shall ar­range for the Pres­ident to for­get to call. He will tele­phone to­mor­row night in­stead,” said the lit­tle man. “Kind­ly re­spond im­me­di­ate­ly to Mr. Fudge.”

“I… oh… very well,” said the Prime Min­is­ter weak­ly. “Yes, I’ll see Fudge.”

He hur­ried back to his desk, straight­en­ing his tie as he went. He had bare­ly re­sumed his seat, and ar­ranged his face in­to what he hoped was a re­laxed and un­fazed ex­pres­sion, when bright green flames burst in­to life in the emp­ty grate be­neath his mar­ble man­tel­piece. He watched, try­ing not to be­tray a flick­er of sur­prise or alarm, as a port­ly man ap­peared with­in the flames, spin­ning as fast as a top. Sec­onds lat­er, he had climbed out on­to a rather fine an­tique rug, brush­ing ash from the sleeves of his long pin­striped cloak, a limegreen bowler hat in his hand.

“Ah… Prime Min­is­ter,” said Cor­nelius Fudge, strid­ing for­ward with his hand out­stretched. “Good to see you again.”

The Prime Min­is­ter could not hon­est­ly re­turn this com­pli­ment, so said noth­ing at all. He was not re­mote­ly pleased to see Fudge, whose oc­ca­sion­al ap­pear­an­ces, apart from be­ing down­right alarm­ing in them­selves, gen­er­al­ly meant that he was about to hear some very bad news. Fur­ther­more, Fudge was look­ing dis­tinct­ly care­worn. He was thin­ner, balder, and gray­er, and his face had a crum­pled look. The Prime Min­is­ter had seen that kind of look in poli­ti­cians be­fore, and it nev­er bod­ed well.

“How can I help you?” he said, shak­ing Fudge’s hand very briefly and ges­tur­ing to­ward the hard­est of the chairs in front of the desk.

“Dif­fi­cult to know where to be­gin,” mut­tered Fudge, pulling up the chair, sit­ting down, and plac­ing his green bowler up­on his knees. “What a week, what a week…”

“Had a bad one too, have you?” asked the Prime Min­is­ter stiffly, hop­ing to con­vey by this that he had quite enough on his plate al­ready with­out any ex­tra help­in­gs from Fudge.

“Yes, of course,” said Fudge, rub­bing his eyes weari­ly and look­ing mo­rose­ly at the Prime Min­is­ter. “I’ve been hav­ing the same week you have, Prime Min­is­ter. The Brock­dale Bridge… the Bones and Vance mur­ders… not to men­tion the ruckus in the West Coun­try…”

“You–er–your–I mean to say, some of your peo­ple were–were in­volved in those–those things, were they?”

Fudge fixed the Prime Min­is­ter with a rather stern look. “Of course they were,” he said, “Sure­ly you’ve re­al­ized what’s go­ing on?”

“I…” hes­itat­ed the Prime Min­is­ter.

It was pre­cise­ly this sort of be­hav­ior that made him dis­like Fudge’s vis­its so much. He was, af­ter all, the Prime Min­is­ter and did not ap­pre­ci­ate be­ing made to feel like an ig­no­rant school­boy. But of course, it had been like this from his very first meet­ing with Fudge on his very first evening as Prime Min­is­ter. He re­mem­bered it as though it were yes­ter­day and knew it would haunt him un­til his dy­ing day.

He had been stand­ing alone in this very of­fice, sa­vor­ing the tri­umph that was his af­ter so many years of dream­ing and schem­ing, when he had heard a cough be­hind him, just like tonight, and turned to find that ug­ly lit­tle por­trait talk­ing to him, an­nounc­ing that the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic was about to ar­rive and in­tro­duce him­self

Nat­ural­ly, he had thought that the long cam­paign and the strain of the elec­tion had caused him to go mad. He had been ut­ter­ly ter­ri­fied to find a por­trait talk­ing to him, though this had been noth­ing to how he felt when a self­pro­claimed wiz­ard had bounced out of the fire­place and shak­en his hand. He had re­mained speech­less through­out Fudge’s kind­ly ex­pla­na­tion that there were witch­es and wiz­ards still liv­ing in se­cret all over the world and his re­as­sur­an­ces that he was not to both­er his head about them as the Min­istry of Mag­ic took re­spon­si­bil­ity for the whole Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty and pre­vent­ed the non­mag­ical pop­ula­tion from get­ting wind of them. It was, said Fudge, a dif­fi­cult job that en­com­passed ev­ery­thing from reg­ula­tions on re­spon­si­ble use of broom­sticks to keep­ing the drag­on pop­ula­tion un­der con­trol (the Prime Min­is­ter re­mem­bered clutch­ing the desk for sup­port at this point). Fudge had then pat­ted the shoul­der of the still­dumb­struck Prime Min­is­ter in a fa­ther­ly sort of way.

“Not to wor­ry,” he had said, “it’s odd­son you’ll nev­er see me again. I’ll on­ly both­er you if there’s some­thing re­al­ly se­ri­ous go­ing on our end, some­thing that’s like­ly to af­fect the Mug­gles–the non­mag­ical pop­ula­tion, I should say. Oth­er­wise, it’s live and let live. And I must say, you’re tak­ing it a lot bet­ter than your pre­de­ces­sor. He tried to throw me out the win­dow, thought I was a hoax planned by the op­po­si­tion.”

At this, the Prime Min­is­ter had found his voice at last. “You’re–you’re not a hoax, then?”

It had been his last, des­per­ate hope.

“No,” said Fudge gen­tly. “No, I’m afraid I’m not. Look.”

And he had turned the Prime Min­is­ter’s teacup in­to a ger­bil.

“But,” said the Prime Min­is­ter breath­less­ly, watch­ing his teacup chew­ing on the cor­ner of his next speech, “but why–why has no­body told me–?”

“The Min­is­ter of Mag­ic on­ly re­veals him–or her­self to the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter of the day,” said Fudge, pok­ing his wand back in­side his jack­et. “We find it the best way to main­tain se­cre­cy.”

“But then,” bleat­ed the Prime Min­is­ter, “why hasn’t a for­mer Prime Min­is­ter warned me–?”

At this, Fudge had ac­tu­al­ly laughed.

“My dear Prime Min­is­ter, are you ev­er go­ing to tell any­body?”

Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some pow­der in­to the fire­place, stepped in­to the emer­ald flames, and van­ished with a whoosh­ing sound. The Prime Min­is­ter had stood there, quite mo­tion­less, and re­al­ized that he would nev­er, as long as he lived, dare men­tion this en­counter to a liv­ing soul, for who in the wide world would be­lieve him?

The shock had tak­en a lit­tle while to wear off. For a time, he had tried to con­vince him­self that Fudge had in­deed been a hal­lu­ci­na­tion brought on by lack of sleep dur­ing his gru­el­ing elec­tion cam­paign. In a vain at­tempt to rid him­self of all re­min­ders of this un­com­fort­able en­counter, he had giv­en the ger­bil to his de­light­ed niece and in­struct­ed his pri­vate sec­re­tary to take down the por­trait of the ug­ly lit­tle man who had an­nounced Fudge’s ar­ri­val. To the Prime Min­is­ter’s dis­may, how­ev­er, the por­trait had proved im­pos­si­ble to re­move. When sev­er­al car­pen­ters, a builder or two, an art his­to­ri­an, and the Chan­cel­lor of the Ex­che­quer had all tried un­suc­cess­ful­ly to pry it from the wall, the Prime Min­is­ter had aban­doned the at­tempt and sim­ply re­solved to hope that the thing re­mained mo­tion­less and silent for the rest of his term in of­fice. Oc­ca­sion­al­ly he could have sworn he saw out of the cor­ner of his eye the oc­cu­pant of the paint­ing yawn­ing, or else scratch­ing his nose; even, once or twice, sim­ply walk­ing out of his frame and leav­ing noth­ing but a stretch of mud­dy­brown can­vas be­hind. How­ev­er, he had trained him­self not to look at the pic­ture very much, and al­ways to tell him­self firm­ly that his eyes were play­ing tricks on him when any­thing like this hap­pened.

Then, three years ago, on a night very like tonight, the Prime Min­is­ter had been alone in his of­fice when the por­trait had once again an­nounced the im­mi­nent ar­ri­val of Fudge, who had burst out of the fire­place, sop­ping wet and in a state of con­sid­er­able pan­ic. Be­fore the Prime Min­is­ter could ask why he was drip­ping all over the Axmin­ster, Fudge had start­ed rant­ing about a prison the Prime Min­is­ter had nev­er heard of, a man named “Se­ri­ous” Black, some­thing that sound­ed like “Hog­warts,” and a boy called Har­ry Pot­ter, none of which made the re­motest sense to the Prime Min­is­ter.

“…I’ve just come from Azk­aban,” Fudge had pant­ed, tip­ping a large amount of wa­ter out of the rim of his bowler hat in­to his pock­et. “Mid­dle of the North Sea, you know, nasty flight… the de­men­tors are in up­roar”–he shud­dered–“they’ve nev­er had a break­out be­fore. Any­way, I had to come to you, Prime Min­is­ter. Black’s a known Mug­gle killer and may be plan­ning to re­join YouKnowWho… But of course, you don’t even know who YouKnowWho is!” He had gazed hope­less­ly at the Prime Min­is­ter for a mo­ment, then said, “Well, sit down, sit down, I’d bet­ter fill you in… Have a whiskey…”

The Prime Min­is­ter rather re­sent­ed be­ing told to sit down in his own of­fice, let alone of­fered his own whiskey, but he sat nev­er­the­less. Fudge pulled out his wand, con­ju­red two large glass­es full of am­ber liq­uid out of thin air, pushed one of them in­to the Prime Min­is­ter’s hand, and drew up a chair.

Fudge had talked for more than an hour. At one point, he had re­fused to say a cer­tain name aloud and wrote it in­stead on a piece of parch­ment, which he had thrust in­to the Prime Min­is­ter’s whiskeyfree hand. When at last Fudge had stood up to leave, the Prime Min­is­ter had stood up too.

“So you think that…” He had squint­ed down at the name in his left hand. “Lord Vol–“

“He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named!” snarled Fudge.

“I’m sor­ry… You think that He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named is still alive, then?”

“Well, Dum­ble­dore says he is,” said Fudge, as he had fas­tened his pin­striped cloak un­der his chin, “but we’ve nev­er found him. If you ask me, he’s not dan­ger­ous un­less he’s got sup­port, so it’s Black we ought to be wor­ry­ing about. You’ll put out that warn­ing, then? Ex­cel­lent. Well, I hope we don’t see each oth­er again, Prime Min­is­ter! Good night.”

But they had seen each oth­er again. Less than a year lat­er a ha­rass­ed­look­ing Fudge had ap­peared out of thin air in the cab­in­et room to in­form the Prime Min­is­ter that there had been a spot of both­er at the Kwid­ditch (or that was what it had sound­ed like) World Cup and that sev­er­al Mug­gles had been “in­volved,” but that the Prime Min­is­ter was not to wor­ry, the fact that YouKnowWho’s Mark had been seen again meant noth­ing; Fudge was sure it was an iso­lat­ed in­ci­dent, and the Mug­gle Li­ai­son Of­fice was deal­ing with all mem­ory mod­ifi­ca­tions as they spoke.

“Oh, and I al­most for­got,” Fudge had added. “We’re im­port­ing three for­eign drag­ons and a sphinx for the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, quite rou­tine, but the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures tells me that it’s down in the rule book that we have to no­ti­fy you if we’re bring­ing high­ly dan­ger­ous crea­tures in­to the coun­try.”

“I–what–drag­ons?” splut­tered the Prime Min­is­ter.

“Yes, three,” said Fudge. “And a sphinx. Well, good day to you.”

The Prime Min­is­ter had hoped be­yond hope that drag­ons and sphinx­es would be the worst of it, but no. Less than two years lat­er, Fudge had erupt­ed out of the fire yet again, this time with the news that there had been a mass break­out from Azk­aban.

“A mass break­out?” re­peat­ed the Prime Min­is­ter hoarse­ly.

“No need to wor­ry, no need to wor­ry!” shout­ed Fudge, al­ready with one foot in the flames. “We’ll have them round­ed up in no time–just thought you ought to know!”

And be­fore the Prime Min­is­ter could shout, “Now, wait just one mo­ment!” Fudge had van­ished in a show­er of green sparks.

What­ev­er the press and the op­po­si­tion might say, the Prime Min­is­ter was not a fool­ish man. It had not es­caped his no­tice that, de­spite Fudge’s as­sur­an­ces at their first meet­ing, they were now see­ing rather a lot of each oth­er, nor that Fudge was be­com­ing more flus­tered with each vis­it. Lit­tle though he liked to think about the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic (or, as he al­ways called Fudge in his head, the Oth­er Min­is­ter), the Prime Min­is­ter could not help but fear that the next time Fudge ap­peared it would be with graver news still. The site, there­fore, of Fudge step­ping out of the fire once more, look­ing di­sheveled and fret­ful and stern­ly sur­prised that the Prime Min­is­ter did not know ex­act­ly why he was there, was about the worst thing that had hap­pened in the course of this ex­treme­ly gloomy week.

“How should I know what’s go­ing on in the–er–Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty?” snapped the Prime Min­is­ter now. “I have a coun­try to run and quite enough con­cerns at the mo­ment with­out–“

“We have the same con­cerns,” Fudge in­ter­rupt­ed. “The Brock­dale Bridge didn’t wear out. That wasn’t re­al­ly a hur­ri­cane. Those mur­ders were not the work of Mug­gles. And Her­bert Chor­ley’s fam­ily would be safer with­out him. We are cur­rent­ly mak­ing ar­range­ments to have him trans­ferred to St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­ju­ries. The move should be af­fect­ed tonight.”

“What do you… I’m afraid I… What?” blus­tered the Prime Min­is­ter.

Fudge took a great, deep breath and said, “Prime Min­is­ter, I am very sor­ry to have to tell you that he’s back. He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named is back.”

“Back? When you say ‘back’… he’s alive? I mean–“

The Prime Min­is­ter groped in his mem­ory for the de­tails of that hor­ri­ble con­ver­sa­tion of three years pre­vi­ous­ly, when Fudge had told him about the wiz­ard who was feared above all oth­ers, the wiz­ard who had com­mit­ted a thou­sand ter­ri­ble crimes be­fore his mys­te­ri­ous dis­ap­pear­an­ce fif­teen years ear­li­er.

“Yes, alive,” said Fudge. “That is–I don’t know–is a man alive if he can’t be killed? I don’t re­al­ly un­der­stand it, and Dum­ble­dore won’t ex­plain prop­er­ly–but any­way, he’s cer­tain­ly got a body and is walk­ing and talk­ing and killing, so I sup­pose, for the pur­pos­es of our dis­cus­sion, yes, he’s alive.”

The Prime Min­is­ter did not know what to say to this, but a per­sis­tent habit of wish­ing to ap­pear wellin­formed on any sub­ject that came up made him cast around for any de­tails he could re­mem­ber of their pre­vi­ous con­ver­sa­tions.

“Is Se­ri­ous Black with–er–He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named?”

“Black? Black?” said Fudge dis­tract­ed­ly, turn­ing his bowler rapid­ly in his fin­gers. “Sir­ius Black, you mean? Mer­lin’s beard, no. Black’s dead. Turns out we were–er–mis­tak­en about Black. He was in­no­cent af­ter all. And he wasn’t in league with He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named ei­ther. I mean,” he added de­fen­sive­ly, spin­ning the bowler hat still faster, “all the ev­idence point­ed–we had more than fifty eye­wit­ness­es–but any­way, as I say, he’s dead. Mur­dered, as a mat­ter of fact. On Min­istry of Mag­ic premis­es. There’s go­ing to be an in­quiry, ac­tu­al­ly…”

To his great sur­prise, the Prime Min­is­ter felt a fleet­ing stab of pity for Fudge at this point. It was, how­ev­er, eclipsed al­most im­me­di­ate­ly by a glow of smug­ness at the thought that, de­fi­cient though he him­self might be in the area of ma­te­ri­al­iz­ing out of fire­places, there had nev­er been a mur­der in any of the gov­ern­ment de­part­ments un­der his charge… Not yet, any­way…

While the Prime Min­is­ter sur­rep­ti­tious­ly touched the wood of his desk, Fudge con­tin­ued, “But Blacks bythe­by now. The point is, we’re at war, Prime Min­is­ter, and steps must be tak­en.”

“At war?” re­peat­ed the Prime Min­is­ter ner­vous­ly. “Sure­ly that’s a lit­tle bit of an over­state­ment?”

“He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named has now been joined by those of his fol­low­ers who broke out of Azk­aban in Jan­uary,” said Fudge, speak­ing more and more rapid­ly and twirling his bowler so fast that it was a limegreen blur. “Since they have moved in­to the open, they have been wreak­ing hav­oc. The Brock­dale Bridge–he did it, Prime Min­is­ter, he threat­ened a mass Mug­gle killing un­less I stood aside for him and–“

“Good grief, so it’s your fault those peo­ple were killed and I’m hav­ing to an­swer ques­tions about rust­ed rig­ging and cor­rod­ed ex­pan­sion joints and I don’t know what else!” said the Prime Min­is­ter fu­ri­ous­ly.

“My fault!” said Fudge, col­or­ing up. “Are you say­ing you would have caved in to black­mail like that?”

“Maybe not,” said the Prime Min­is­ter, stand­ing up and strid­ing about the room, “but I would have put all my ef­forts in­to catch­ing the black­mail­er be­fore he com­mit­ted any such atroc­ity!”

“Do you re­al­ly think I wasn’t al­ready mak­ing ev­ery ef­fort?” de­mand­ed Fudge heat­ed­ly. “Ev­ery Au­ror in the Min­istry was–and is–try­ing to find him and round up his fol­low­ers, but we hap­pen to be talk­ing about one of the most pow­er­ful wiz­ards of all time, a wiz­ard who has elud­ed cap­ture for al­most three decades!”

“So I sup­pose you’re go­ing to tell me he caused the hur­ri­cane in the West Coun­try too?” said the Prime Min­is­ter, his tem­per ris­ing with ev­ery pace he took. It was in­fu­ri­at­ing to dis­cov­er the rea­son for all these ter­ri­ble dis­as­ters and not to be able to tell the pub­lic, al­most worse than it be­ing the gov­ern­ment’s fault af­ter all.

“That was no hur­ri­cane,” said Fudge mis­er­ably.

“Ex­cuse me!” barked the Prime Min­is­ter, now pos­itive­ly stamp­ing up and down. “Trees up­root­ed, roofs ripped off, lamp­posts bent, hor­ri­ble in­ju­ries–“

“It was the Death Eaters,” said Fudge. “He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named’s fol­low­ers. And… and we sus­pect gi­ant in­volve­ment.”

The Prime Min­is­ter stopped in his tracks as though he had hit an in­vis­ible wall. “What in­volve­ment?”

Fudge gri­maced. “He used gi­ants last time, when he want­ed to go for the grand ef­fect,” he said. “The Of­fice of Mis­in­for­ma­tion has been work­ing around the clock, we’ve had teams of Oblivi­ators out try­ing to mod­ify the mem­ories of all the Mug­gles who saw what re­al­ly hap­pened, we’ve got most of the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures run­ning around Som­er­set, but we can’t find the gi­ant–it’s been a dis­as­ter.”

“You don’t say!” said the Prime Min­is­ter fu­ri­ous­ly.

“I won’t de­ny that morale is pret­ty low at the Min­istry,” said Fudge. “What with all that, and then los­ing Amelia Bones.”

“Los­ing who?”

“Amelia Bones. Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment. We think He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named may have mur­dered her in per­son, be­cause she was a very gift­ed witch and–and all the ev­idence was that she put up a re­al fight.”

Fudge cleared his throat and, with an ef­fort, it seemed, stopped spin­ning his bowler hat.

“But that mur­der was in the news­pa­pers,” said the Prime Min­is­ter, mo­men­tar­ily di­vert­ed from his anger. “Our news­pa­pers. Amelia Bones… it just said she was a mid­dleaged wom­an who lived alone. It was a–a nasty killing, wasn’t it? It’s had rather a lot of pub­lic­ity. The po­lice are baf­fled, you see.”

Fudge sighed. “Well, of course they are,” he said. “Killed in a room that was locked from the in­side, wasn’t she? We, on the oth­er hand, know ex­act­ly who did it, not that that gets us any fur­ther to­ward catch­ing him. And then there was Em­me­line Vance, maybe you didn’t hear about that one–“

“Oh yes I did!” said the Prime Min­is­ter. “It hap­pened just around the cor­ner from here, as a mat­ter of fact. The pa­pers had a field day with it, ‘break­down of law and or­der in the Prime Min­is­ter’s back­yard–’”

“And as if all that wasn’t enough,” said Fudge, bare­ly lis­ten­ing to the Prime Min­is­ter, “we’ve got de­men­tors swarm­ing all over the place, at­tack­ing peo­ple left, right, and cen­ter…”

Once up­on a hap­pi­er time this sen­tence would have been un­in­tel­li­gi­ble to the Prime Min­is­ter, but he was wis­er now.

“I thought de­men­tors guard the pris­on­ers in Azk­aban,” he said cau­tious­ly.

“They did,” said Fudge weari­ly. “But not any­more. They’ve de­sert­ed the prison and joined He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named. I won’t pre­tend that wasn’t a blow.”

“But,” said the Prime Min­is­ter, with a sense of dawn­ing hor­ror, “didn’t you tell me they’re the crea­tures that drain hope and hap­pi­ness out of peo­ple?”

“That’s right. And they’re breed­ing. That’s what’s caus­ing all this mist.”

The Prime Min­is­ter sank, weakkneed, in­to the near­est chair. The idea of in­vis­ible crea­tures swoop­ing through the towns and coun­try­side, spread­ing de­spair and hope­less­ness in his vot­ers, made him feel quite faint.

“Now see here, Fudge–you’ve got to do some­thing! It’s your re­spon­si­bil­ity as Min­is­ter of Mag­ic!”

“My dear Prime Min­is­ter, you can’t hon­est­ly think I’m still Min­is­ter of Mag­ic af­ter all this? I was sacked three days ago! The whole Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty has been scream­ing for my res­ig­na­tion for a fort­night. I’ve nev­er known them so unit­ed in my whole term of of­fice!” said Fudge, with a brave at­tempt at a smile.

The Prime Min­is­ter was mo­men­tar­ily lost for words. De­spite his in­dig­na­tion at the po­si­tion in­to which he had been placed, he still rather felt for the shrunk­en­look­ing man sit­ting op­po­site him.

“I’m very sor­ry,” he said fi­nal­ly. “If there’s any­thing I can do?”

“It’s very kind of you, Prime Min­is­ter, but there is noth­ing. I was sent here tonight to bring you up to date on re­cent events and to in­tro­duce you to my suc­ces­sor. I rather thought he’d be here by now, but of course, he’s very busy at the mo­ment, with so much go­ing on.”

Fudge looked around at the por­trait of the ug­ly lit­tle man wear­ing the long curly sil­ver wig, who was dig­ging in his ear with the point of a quill. Catch­ing Fudge’s eye, the por­trait said, “He’ll be here in a mo­ment, he’s just fin­ish­ing a let­ter to Dum­ble­dore.”

“I wish him luck,” said Fudge, sound­ing bit­ter for the first time. “I’ve been writ­ing to Dum­ble­dore twice a day for the past fort­night, but he won’t budge. If he’d just been pre­pared to per­suade the boy, I might still be… Well, maybe Scrim­geour will have more suc­cess.”

Fudge sub­sid­ed in­to what was clear­ly an ag­grieved si­lence, but it was bro­ken al­most im­me­di­ate­ly by the por­trait, which sud­den­ly spoke in its crisp, of­fi­cial voice.

“To the Prime Min­is­ter of Mug­gles. Re­quest­ing a meet­ing. Ur­gent. Kind­ly re­spond im­me­di­ate­ly. Ru­fus Scrim­geour, Min­is­ter of Mag­ic.”

“Yes, yes, fine,” said the Prime Min­is­ter dis­tract­ed­ly, and he bare­ly flinched as the flames in the grate turned emer­ald green again, rose up, and re­vealed a sec­ond spin­ning wiz­ard in their heart, dis­gorg­ing him mo­ments lat­er on­to the an­tique rug.

Fudge got to his feet and, af­ter a mo­ment’s hes­ita­tion, the Prime Min­is­ter did the same, watch­ing the new ar­ri­val straight­en up, dust down his long black robes, and look around.

The Prime Min­is­ter’s first, fool­ish thought was that Ru­fus Scrim­geour looked rather like an old li­on. There were streaks of gray in his mane of tawny hair and his bushy eye­brows; he had keen yel­low­ish eyes be­hind a pair of wirerimmed spec­ta­cles and a cer­tain rangy, lop­ing grace even though he walked with a slight limp. There was an im­me­di­ate im­pres­sion of shrewd­ness and tough­ness; the Prime Min­is­ter thought he un­der­stood why the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty pre­ferred Scrim­geour to Fudge as a lead­er in these dan­ger­ous times.

“How do you do?” said the Prime Min­is­ter po­lite­ly, hold­ing out his hand.

Scrim­geour grasped it briefly, his eyes scan­ning the room, then pulled out a wand from un­der his robes.

“Fudge told you ev­ery­thing?” he asked, strid­ing over to the door and tap­ping the key­hole with his wand. The Prime Min­is­ter heard the lock click.

“Er–yes,” said the Prime Min­is­ter. “And if you don’t mind, I’d rather that door re­mained un­locked.”

“I’d rather not be in­ter­rupt­ed,” said Scrim­geour short­ly, “or watched,” he added, point­ing his wand at the win­dows, so that the cur­tains swept across them. “Right, well, I’m a busy man, so let’s get down lo busi­ness. First of all, we need to dis­cuss your se­cu­ri­ty.”

The Prime Min­is­ter drew him­self up to his fullest height and replied, “I am per­fect­ly hap­py with the se­cu­ri­ty I’ve al­ready got, thank you very–“

“Well, we’re not,” Scrim­geour cut in. “It’ll be a poor look­out for the Mug­gles if their Prime Min­is­ter gets put un­der the Im­perius Curse. The new sec­re­tary in your out­er of­fice–“

“I’m not get­ting rid of Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt, if that’s what you’re sug­gest­ing!” said the Prime Min­is­ter hot­ly. “He’s high­ly ef­fi­cient, gets through twice the work the rest of them–“

“That’s be­cause he’s a wiz­ard,” said Scrim­geour, with­out a flick­er of a smile. “A high­ly trained Au­ror, who has been as­signed to you for your pro­tec­tion.”

“Now, wait a mo­ment!” de­clared the Prime Min­is­ter. “You can’t just put your peo­ple in­to my of­fice, I de­cide who works for me–“

“I thought you were hap­py with Shack­le­bolt?” said Scrim­geour cold­ly.

“I am–that’s to say, I was–“

“Then there’s no prob­lem, is there?” said Scrim­geour.

“I… well, as long as Shack­le­bolt’s work con­tin­ues to be… er… ex­cel­lent,” said the Prime Min­is­ter lame­ly, but Scrim­geour bare­ly seemed to hear him.

“Now, about Her­bert Chor­ley, your Ju­nior Min­is­ter,” he con­tin­ued. “The one who has been en­ter­tain­ing the pub­lic by im­per­son­at­ing a duck.”

“What about him?” asked the Prime Min­is­ter.

“He has clear­ly re­act­ed to a poor­ly per­formed Im­perius Curse,” said Scrim­geour. “It’s ad­dled his brains, but he could still be dan­ger­ous.”

“He’s on­ly quack­ing!” said the Prime Min­is­ter weak­ly. “Sure­ly a bit of a rest… Maybe go easy on the drink…”

“A team of Heal­ers from St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­ju­ries are ex­am­in­ing him as we speak. So far he has at­tempt­ed to stran­gle three of them,” said Scrim­geour. “I think it best that we re­move him from Mug­gle so­ci­ety for a while.”

“I… well… He’ll be all right, won’t he?” said the Prime Min­is­ter anx­ious­ly.

Scrim­geour mere­ly shrugged, al­ready mov­ing back to­ward the fire­place.

“Well, that’s re­al­ly all I had to say. I will keep you post­ed of de­vel­op­ments, Prime Min­is­ter–or, at least, I shall prob­ably be too busy to come per­son­al­ly, in which case I shall send Fudge here. He has con­sent­ed to stay on in an ad­vi­so­ry ca­pac­ity.”

Fudge at­tempt­ed to smile, but was un­suc­cess­ful; he mere­ly looked as though he had a toothache. Scrim­geour was al­ready rum­mag­ing in his pock­et for the mys­te­ri­ous pow­der that turned the fire green. The Prime Min­is­ter gazed hope­less­ly at the pair of them for a mo­ment, then the words he had fought to sup­press all evening burst from him at last.

“But for heav­en’s sake–you’re wiz­ards! You can do mag­ic! Sure­ly you can sort out–well–any­thing!”

Scrim­geour turned slow­ly on the spot and ex­changed an in­cred­ulous look with Fudge, who re­al­ly did man­age a smile this time as he said kind­ly, “The trou­ble is, the oth­er side can do mag­ic too, Prime Min­is­ter.”

And with that, the two wiz­ards stepped one af­ter the oth­er in­to the bright green fire and van­ished.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 2: Spinner’s End


Many miles away the chilly mist that had pressed against the Prime Min­is­ter’s win­dows drift­ed over a dirty riv­er that wound be­tween over­grown, rub­bish­strewn banks. An im­mense chim­ney, rel­ic of a dis­used mill, reared up, shad­owy and omi­nous. There was no sound apart from the whis­per of the black wa­ter and no sign of life apart from a scrawny fox that had slunk down the bank to nose hope­ful­ly at some old fis­hand­chip wrap­pings in the tall grass.

But then, with a very faint pop, a slim, hood­ed fig­ure ap­peared out of thin air on the edge of the riv­er. The fox froze, wary eyes fixed up­on this strange new phe­nomenon. The fig­ure seemed to take its bear­in­gs for a few mo­ments, then set off with light, quick strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass.

With a sec­ond and loud­er pop, an­oth­er hood­ed fig­ure ma­te­ri­al­ized.

“Wait!”

The harsh cry star­tled the fox, now crouch­ing al­most flat in the un­der­growth. It leapt from its hid­ing place and up the bank. There was a flash of green light, a yelp, and the fox fell back to the ground, dead.

The sec­ond fig­ure turned over the an­imal with its toe.

“Just a fox,” said a wom­an’s voice dis­mis­sive­ly from un­der the hood. “I thought per­haps an Au­ror–Cis­sy, wait!”

But her quar­ry, who had paused and looked back at the flash of light, was al­ready scram­bling up the bank the fox had just fall­en down.

“Cis­sy–Nar­cis­sa–lis­ten to me–“

The sec­ond wom­an caught the first and seized her arm, but the oth­er wrenched it away.

“Go back, Bel­la!”

“You must lis­ten to me!”

“I’ve lis­tened al­ready. I’ve made my de­ci­sion. Leave me alone!”

The wom­an named Nar­cis­sa gained the top of the bank, where a line of old rail­in­gs sep­arat­ed the riv­er from a nar­row, cob­bled street. The oth­er wom­an, Bel­la, fol­lowed at once. Side by side they stood look­ing across the road at the rows and rows of di­lap­idat­ed brick hous­es, their win­dows dull and blind in the dark­ness.

“He lives here?” asked Bel­la in a voice of con­tempt. “Here? In this Mug­gle dunghill? We must be the first of our kind ev­er to set foot–“

But Nar­cis­sa was not lis­ten­ing; she had slipped through a gap in the rusty rail­in­gs and was al­ready hur­ry­ing across the road.

“Cis­sy, waitl”

Bel­la fol­lowed, her cloak stream­ing be­hind, and saw Nar­cis­sa dart­ing through an al­ley be­tween the hous­es in­to a sec­ond, al­most iden­ti­cal street. Some of the street­lamps were bro­ken; the two wom­en were run­ning be­tween patch­es of light and deep dark­ness. The pur­suer caught up with her prey just as she turned an­oth­er cor­ner, this time suc­ceed­ing in catch­ing hold of her arm and swing­ing her around so that they faced each oth­er.

“Cis­sy, you must not do this, you can’t trust him–“

“The Dark Lord trusts him, doesn’t he?”

“The Dark Lord is… I be­lieve… mis­tak­en,” Bel­la pant­ed, and her eyes gleamed mo­men­tar­ily un­der her hood as she looked around to check that they were in­deed alone. “In any case, we were told not to speak of the plan to any­one. This is a be­tray­al of the Dark Lord’s–“

“Let go, Bel­la!” snarled Nar­cis­sa, and she drew a wand from be­neath her cloak, hold­ing it threat­en­ing­ly in the oth­er’s face. Bel­la mere­ly laughed.

“Cis­sy, your own sis­ter? You wouldn’t–“

“There is noth­ing I wouldn’t do any­more!” Nar­cis­sa breathed, a note of hys­te­ria in her voice, and as she brought down the wand like a knife, there was an­oth­er flash of light. Bel­la let go of her sis­ter’s arm as though burned.

“Nar­cis­sa!”

But Nar­cis­sa had rushed ahead. Rub­bing her hand, her pur­suer fol­lowed again, keep­ing her dis­tance now, as they moved deep­er in­to the de­sert­ed labyrinth of brick hous­es. At last, Nar­cis­sa hur­ried up a street named Spin­ner’s End, over which the tow­er­ing mill chim­ney seemed to hov­er like a gi­ant ad­mon­ito­ry fin­ger. Her foot­steps echoed on the cob­bles as she passed board­ed and bro­ken win­dows, un­til she reached the very last house, where a dim light glim­mered through the cur­tains in a down­stairs room.

She had knocked on the door be­fore Bel­la, curs­ing un­der her breath, had caught up. To­geth­er they stood wait­ing, pant­ing slight­ly, breath­ing in the smell of the dirty riv­er that was car­ried to them on the night breeze. Af­ter a few sec­onds, they heard move­ment be­hind the door and it opened a crack. A sliv­er of a man could be seen look­ing out at them, a man with long black hair part­ed in cur­tains around a sal­low face and black eyes.

Nar­cis­sa threw back her hood. She was so pale that she seemed to shine in the dark­ness; the long blonde hair stream­ing down her back gave her the look of a drowned per­son.

“Nar­cis­sa!” said the man, open­ing the door a lit­tle wider, so that the light fell up­on her and her sis­ter too. “What a pleas­ant sur­prise!

“Severus,” she said in a strained whis­per. “May I speak to you? It’s ur­gent.”

“But of course.”

He stood back to al­low her to pass him in­to the house. Her still­hood­ed sis­ter fol­lowed with­out in­vi­ta­tion.

“Snape,” she said curt­ly as she passed him.

“Bel­la­trix,” he replied, his thin mouth curl­ing in­to a slight­ly mock­ing smile as he closed the door with a snap be­hind them.

They had stepped di­rect­ly in­to a tiny sit­ting room, which had the feel­ing of a dark, padded cell. The walls were com­plete­ly cov­ered in books, most of them bound in old black or brown leather; a thread­bare so­fa, an old arm­chair, and a rick­ety ta­ble stood grouped to­geth­er in a pool of dim light cast by a can­dle­filled lamp hung from the ceil­ing. The place had an air of ne­glect, as though it was not usu­al­ly in­hab­it­ed.

Snape ges­tured Nar­cis­sa to the so­fa. She threw off her cloak, cast it aside, and sat down, star­ing at her white and trem­bling hands clasped in her lap. Bel­la­trix low­ered her hood more slow­ly. Dark as her sis­ter was fair, with heav­ily lid­ded eyes and a strong jaw, she did not take her gaze from Snape as she moved to stand be­hind Nar­cis­sa.

“So, what can I do for you?” Snape asked, set­tling him­self in the arm­chair op­po­site the two sis­ters.

“We… we are alone, aren’t we?” Nar­cis­sa asked qui­et­ly.

‘Yes, of course. Well, Worm­tail’s here, but we’re not count­ing ver­min, are we?”

He point­ed his wand at the wall of books be­hind him and with a bang, a hid­den door flew open, re­veal­ing a nar­row stair­case up­on which a small man stood frozen.

“As you have clear­ly re­al­ized, Worm­tail, we have guests,” said Snape lazi­ly.

The man crept, hunch­backed, down the last few steps and moved in­to the room. He had small, wa­tery eyes, a point­ed nose, and wore an un­pleas­ant sim­per. His left hand was ca­ress­ing his right, which looked as though it was en­cased in a bright sil­ver glove.

“Nar­cis­sa!” he said, in a squeaky voice. “And Bel­la­trix! How charm­ing–“

“Worm­tail will get us drinks, if you’d like them,” said Snape. “And then he will re­turn to his bed­room.”

Worm­tail winced as though Snape had thrown some­thing at him.

“I am not your ser­vant!” he squeaked, avoid­ing Snape’s eye.

“Re­al­ly? I was un­der the im­pres­sion that the Dark Lord placed you here to as­sist me.”

“To as­sist, yes–but not to make you drinks and–and clean your house!”

“I had no idea, Worm­tail, that you were crav­ing more dan­ger­ous as­sign­ments,” said Snape silk­ily. “This can be eas­ily ar­ranged: I shall speak to the Dark Lord–“

“I can speak to him my­self if I want to!”

“Of course you can,” said Snape, sneer­ing. “But in the mean­time, bring us drinks. Some of the elf­made wine will do.”

Worm­tail hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, look­ing as though he might ar­gue, but then turned and head­ed through a sec­ond hid­den door. They heard bang­ing and a clink­ing of glass­es. With­in sec­onds he was back, bear­ing a dusty bot­tle and three glass­es up­on a tray. He dropped these on the rick­ety ta­ble and scur­ried from their pres­ence, slam­ming the book­cov­ered door be­hind him.

Snape poured out three glass­es of blood­red wine and hand­ed two of them to the sis­ters. Nar­cis­sa mur­mured a word of thanks, whilst Bel­la­trix said noth­ing, but con­tin­ued to glow­er at Snape. This did not seem to dis­com­pose him; on the con­trary, he looked rather amused.

“The Dark Lord,” he said, rais­ing his glass and drain­ing it.

The sis­ters copied him. Snape re­filled their glass­es. As Nar­cis­sa took her sec­ond drink she said in a rush, “Severus, I’m sor­ry to come here like this, but I had to see you. I think you are the on­ly one who can help me–“

Snape held up a hand to stop her, then point­ed his wand again at the con­cealed stair­case door. There was a loud bang and a squeal, fol­lowed by the sound of Worm­tail scur­ry­ing back up the stairs.

“My apo­lo­gies,” said Snape. “He has late­ly tak­en to lis­ten­ing at doors, I don’t know what he means by it… You were say­ing, Nar­cis­sa?”

She took a great, shud­der­ing breath and start­ed again.

“Severus, I know I ought not to be here, I have been told to say noth­ing to any­one, but–“

“Then you ought to hold your tongue!” snarled Bel­la­trix. “Par­tic­ular­ly in present com­pa­ny!”

‘”Present com­pa­ny’?” re­peat­ed Snape sar­don­ical­ly. “And what am I to un­der­stand by that, Bel­la­trix?”

“That I don’t trust you, Snape, as you very well know!”

Nar­cis­sa let out a noise that might have been a dry sob and cov­ered her face with her hands. Snape set his glass down up­on the ta­ble and sat back again, his hands up­on the arms of his chair, smil­ing in­to Bel­la­trix’s glow­er­ing face.

“Nar­cis­sa, I think we ought to hear what Bel­la­trix is burst­ing to say; it will save te­dious in­ter­rup­tions. Well, con­tin­ue, Bel­la­trix,” said Snape. “Why is it that you do not trust me?”

“A hun­dred rea­sons!” she said loud­ly, strid­ing out from be­hind the so­fa to slam her glass up­on the ta­ble. “Where to start! Where were you when the Dark Lord fell? Why did you nev­er make any at­tempt to find him when he van­ished? What have you been do­ing all these years that you’ve lived in Dum­ble­dore’s pock­et? Why did you stop the Dark Lord procur­ing the Sor­cer­er’s Stone? Why did you not re­turn at once when the Dark Lord was re­born? Where were you a few weeks ago when we bat­tled to re­trieve the prophe­cy for the Dark Lord? And why, Snape, is Har­ry Pot­ter still alive, when you have had him at your mer­cy for five years?”

She paused, her chest ris­ing and falling rapid­ly, the col­or high in her cheeks. Be­hind her, Nar­cis­sa sat mo­tion­less, her face still hid­den in her hands.

Snape smiled.

“Be­fore I an­swer you — oh yes, Bel­la­trix, I am go­ing to an­swer! You can car­ry my words back to the oth­ers who whis­per be­hind my back, and car­ry false tales of my treach­ery to the Dark Lord! Be­fore I an­swer you, I say, let me ask a ques­tion in turn. Do you re­al­ly think that the Dark Lord has not asked me each and ev­ery one of those ques­tions? And do you re­al­ly think that, had I not been able to give sat­is­fac­to­ry an­swers, I would be sit­ting here talk­ing to you?”

She hes­itat­ed.

“I know he be­lieves you, but…”

“You think he is mis­tak­en? Or that I have some­how hood­winked him? Fooled the Dark Lord, the great­est wiz­ard, the most ac­com­plished Legili­mens the world has ev­er seen?”

Bel­la­trix said noth­ing, but looked, for the first time, a lit­tle dis­com­fit­ed. Snape did not press the point. He picked up his drink again, sipped it, and con­tin­ued, “You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he had or­dered me to be, at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, be­cause he wished me to spy up­on Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. You know, I pre­sume, that it was on the Dark Lord’s or­ders that I took up the post?”

She nod­ded al­most im­per­cep­ti­bly and then opened her mouth, but Snape fore­stalled her.

“You ask why I did not at­tempt to find him when he van­ished. For the same rea­son that Av­ery, Yax­ley, the Car­rows, Grey­back, Lu­cius” — he in­clined his head slight­ly to Nar­cis­sa — “and many oth­ers did not at­tempt to find him. I be­lieved him fin­ished. I am not proud of it, I was wrong, but there it is… If he had not for­giv­en we who lost faith at that time, he would have very few fol­low­ers left.”

“He’d have me!” said Bel­la­trix pas­sion­ate­ly. “I, who spent many years in Azk­aban for him!”

“Yes, in­deed, most ad­mirable,” said Snape in a bored voice. “Of i nurse, you weren’t a lot of use to him in prison, but the ges­ture was un­doubt­ed­ly fine —”

“Ges­ture!” she shrieked; in her fury she looked slight­ly mad. “While I en­dured the de­men­tors, you re­mained at Hog­warts, com­lortably play­ing Dum­ble­dore’s pet!”

“Not quite,” said Snape calm­ly. “He wouldn’t give me the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job, you know. Seemed to think it might, ah, bring about a re­lapse ,.. tempt me in­to my old ways.”

“This was your sac­ri­fice for the Dark Lord, not to teach your fa­vorite sub­ject?” she jeered. “Why did you stay there all that time, Snape? Still spy­ing on Dum­ble­dore for a mas­ter you be­lieved dead?”

“Hard­ly,” said Snape, “al­though the Dark Lord is pleased that I nev­er de­sert­ed my post: I had six­teen years of in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore to give him when he re­turned, a rather more use­ful wel­come­back present than end­less rem­inis­cences of how un­pleas­ant Azk­aban is…”

“But you stayed —”

“Yes, Bel­la­trix, I stayed,” said Snape, be­tray­ing a hint of im­pa­tience for the first time. “I had a com­fort­able job that I pre­ferred to a stint in Azk­aban. They were round­ing up the Death Eaters, you know. Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion kept me out of jail; it was most con­ve­nient and I used it. I re­peat: The Dark Lord does not com­plain that I stayed, so I do not see why you do.

“I think you next want­ed to know,” he pressed on, ;i lit­tle more loud­ly, for Bel­la­trix showed ev­ery sign of in­ter­rupt­ing, “why I stood be­tween the Dark Lord and the Sor­cer­er’s Stone. That is eas­ily an­swered. He did not know whether he could trust me. He thought, like you, that I had turned from faith­ful Death Eater to Dum­ble­dore’s stooge. He was in a pitiable con­di­tion, very weak, shar­ing the body of a mediocre wiz­ard. He did not dare re­veal him­self to a for­mer al­ly if that al­ly might turn him over to Dum­ble­dore or the Min­istry. I deeply re­gret that he did not trust me. He would have re­turned to pow­er three years soon­er. As it was, I saw on­ly greedy and un­wor­thy Quir­rell at­tempt­ing to steal the stone and, I ad­mit, I did all I could to thwart him.”

Bel­la­trix’s mouth twist­ed as though she had tak­en an un­pleas­ant dose of medicine.

“But you didn’t re­turn when he came back, you didn’t fly back to him at once when you felt the Dark Mark burn —”

“Cor­rect. I re­turned two hours lat­er. I re­turned on Dum­ble­dore’s or­ders.”

“On Dum­ble­dore’s — ?” she be­gan, in tones of out­rage.

“Think!” said Snape, im­pa­tient again. “Think! By wait­ing two hours, just two hours, I en­sured that I could re­main at Hog­warts as a spy! By al­low­ing Dum­ble­dore to think that I was on­ly re­turn­ing to the Dark Lord’s side be­cause I was or­dered to, I have been able to pass in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore and the Or­der of the Phoenix ev­er since! Con­sid­er, Bel­la­trix: The Dark Mark had been grow­ing stronger for months. I knew he must be about to re­turn, all the Death Eaters knew! I had plen­ty of time to think about what I want­ed to do, to plan my next move, to es­cape like Karkaroff, didn’t I?

“The Dark Lord’s ini­tial dis­plea­sure at my late­ness van­ished en­tire­ly, 1 as­sure you, when I ex­plained that 1 re­mained faith­ful, al­though Dum­ble­dore thought I was his man. Yes, the Dark Lord thought that I had left him for­ev­er, but he was wrong.”

“But what use have you been?” sneered Bel­la­trix. “What use­ful in­for­ma­tion have we had from you?”

“My in­for­ma­tion has been con­veyed di­rect­ly to the Dark Lord,” said Snape. “If he choos­es not to share it with you —”

“He shares ev­ery­thing with me!” said Bel­la­trix, fir­ing up at once. “He calls me his most loy­al, his most faith­ful —”

“Does he?” said Snape, his voice del­icate­ly in­flect­ed to sug­gest his dis­be­lief. “Does he still, af­ter the fi­as­co at the Min­istry?”

“That was not my fault!” said Bel­la­trix, flush­ing. “The Dark Lord has, in the past, en­trust­ed me with his most pre­cious — if Lu­cius hadn’t —”

“Don’t you dare — don’t you dare blame my hus­band!” said Nar­cis­sa, in a low and dead­ly voice, look­ing up at her sis­ter.

“There is no point ap­por­tion­ing blame,” said Snape smooth­ly. “What is done, is done.”

“But not by you!” said Bel­la­trix fu­ri­ous­ly. “No, you were once again ab­sent while the rest of us ran dan­gers, were you not, Snape?”

“My or­ders were to re­main be­hind,” said Snape. “Per­haps you dis­agree with the Dark Lord, per­haps you think that Dum­ble­dore would not have no­ticed if I had joined forces with the Death Eaters to fight the Or­der of the Phoenix? And — for­give me — you speak of dan­gers… you were fac­ing six teenagers, were you not?”

“They were joined, as you very well know, by half of the Or­der be­fore long!” snarled Bel­la­trix. “And, while we are on the sub­ject of the Or­der, you still claim you can­not re­veal the where­abouts of their head­quar­ters, don’t you?”

“I am not the Se­cret­Keep­er; I can­not speak the name of the place. You un­der­stand how the en­chant­ment works, I think? The Dark Lord is sat­is­fied with the in­for­ma­tion I have passed him on the Or­der. It led, as per­haps you have guessed, to the re­cent cap­ture and mur­der of Em­me­line Vance, and it cer­tain­ly helped dis­pose of Sir­ius Black, though I give you full cred­it for fin­ish­ing him off.”

He in­clined his head and toast­ed her. Her ex­pres­sion did nor soft­en.

“You are avoid­ing my last ques­tion, Snape. Har­ry Pot­ter. You could have killed him at any point in the past five years. You have not done it. Why?”

“Have you dis­cussed this mat­ter with the Dark Lord?” asked Snape.

“He… late­ly, we… I am ask­ing you, Snape!”

“If I had mur­dered Har­ry Pot­ter, the Dark Lord could not have used his blood to re­gen­er­ate, mak­ing him in­vin­ci­ble —”

“You claim you fore­saw his use of the boy!” she jeered.

“I do not claim it; I had no idea of his plans; I have al­ready con­fessed that I thought the Dark Lord dead. I am mere­ly try­ing to ex­plain why the Dark Lord is not sor­ry that Pot­ter sur­vived, at least un­til a year ago…”

“But why did you keep him alive?”

“Have you not un­der­stood me? It was on­ly Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion that was keep­ing me out of Azk­aban! Do you dis­agree that mur­der­ing his fa­vorite stu­dent might have turned him against me? But there was more to it than that. I should re­mind you that when Pot­ter first ar­rived at Hog­warts there were still many sto­ries cir­cu­lat­ing about him, ru­mors that he him­self was a great Dark wiz­ard, which was how he had sur­vived the Dark Lord’s at­tack. In­deed, many of the Dark Lords old fol­low­ers thought Pot­ter might be a stan­dard around which we could all ral­ly once more. I was cu­ri­ous, 1 ad­mit it, and not at all in­clined to mur­der him the mo­ment he set fool in the cas­tle.

“Of course, it be­came ap­par­ent to me very quick­ly that he had no ex­traor­di­nary tal­ent at all. He has fought his way out of a num­ber of tight cor­ners by a sim­ple com­bi­na­tion of sheer luck and more tal­ent­ed friends. He is mediocre to the last de­gree, though as ob­nox­ious and self­sat­is­fied as was his fa­ther be­fore him. I have done my ut­most to have him thrown out of Hog­warts, where I be­lieve he scarce­ly be­longs, but kill him, or al­low him to be killed in front of me? I would have been a fool to risk it with Dum­ble­dore close at hand.”

“And through all this we are sup­posed to be­lieve Dum­ble­dore has nev­er sus­pect­ed you?” asked Bel­la­trix. “He has no idea of your true al­le­gi­ance, he trusts you im­plic­it­ly still?”

“I have played my part well,” said Snape. “And you over­look Dum­ble­dore’s great­est weak­ness: He has to be­lieve the best of peo­ple. I spun him a tale of deep­est re­morse when I joined his staff, fresh from my Death Eater days, and he em­braced me with open arms — though, as I say, nev­er al­low­ing me near­er the Dark Arts than he could help. Dum­ble­dore has been a great wiz­ard — oh yes, he has,” (for Bel­la­trix had made a scathing noise), “the Dark Lord ac­knowl­edges it. I am pleased to say, how­ev­er, that Dum­ble­dore is grow­ing old. The du­el with the Dark Lord last month shook him. He has since sus­tained a se­ri­ous in­ju­ry be­cause his re­ac­tions are slow­er than they once were. But through all these years, he has nev­er stopped trust­ing Severus Snape, and there­in lies my great val­ue to the Dark Lord.”

Bel­la­trix still looked un­hap­py, though she ap­peared un­sure how best to at­tack Snape next. Tak­ing ad­van­tage of her si­lence, Snape turned to her sis­ter.

“Now… you came to ask me for help, Nar­cis­sa?”

Nar­cis­sa looked up at him, her face elo­quent with de­spair.

“Yes, Severus. I — I think you are the on­ly one who can help me, I have nowhere else to turn. Lu­cius is in jail and…”

She closed her eyes and two large tears seeped from be­neath her eye­lids.

“The Dark Lord has for­bid­den me to speak of it,” Nar­cis­sa con­tin­ued, her eyes still closed. “He wish­es none to know of the plan. It is… very se­cret. But —”

“If he has for­bid­den it, you ought not to speak,” said Snape at once. “The Dark Lord’s word is law.”

Nar­cis­sa gasped as though he had doused her with cold wa­ter. Bel­la­trix looked sat­is­fied for the first time since she had en­tered the house.

“There!” she said tri­umphant­ly to her sis­ter. “Even Snape says so: You were told not to talk, so hold your si­lence!”

But Snape had got­ten to his feet and strode to the small win­dow, peered through the cur­tains at the de­sert­ed street, then closed them again with a jerk. He turned around to face Nar­cis­sa, frown­ing.

“It so hap­pens that I know of the plan,” he said in a low voice. “I am one of the few the Dark Lord has told. Nev­er­the­less, had I not been in on the se­cret, Nar­cis­sa, you would have been guilty of great treach­ery to the Dark Lord.”

“I thought you must know about it!” said Nar­cis­sa, breath­ing more freely. “He trusts you so, Severus…”

“You know about the plan?” said Bel­la­trix, her fleet­ing ex­pres­sion of sat­is­fac­tion re­placed by a look of out­rage. “You know?”

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Snape. “But what help do you re­quire, Nar­cis­sa? If you are imag­in­ing I can per­suade the Dark Lord to change his mind, I am afraid there is no hope, none at all.”

“Severus,” she whis­pered, tears slid­ing down her pale cheeks. “My son… my on­ly son…”

“Dra­co should be proud,” said Bel­la­trix in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “The Dark I ,ord is grant­ing him a great hon­or. And I will say this for Dra­co: I Ic isn’t shrink­ing away from his du­ty, he seems glad of a chance to prove him­self, ex­cit­ed at the prospect —”

Nar­cis­sa be­gan to cry in earnest, gaz­ing be­seech­ing­ly all the while at Snape.

“That’s be­cause he is six­teen and has no idea what lies in store! Why, Severus? Why my son? It is too dan­ger­ous! This is vengeance lor Lu­cius’s mis­take, I know it!”

Snape said noth­ing. He looked away from the sight of her tears as though they were in­de­cent, but he could not pre­tend not to hear her.

“That’s why he’s cho­sen Dra­co, isn’t it?” she per­sist­ed. “To pun­ish Lu­cius?”

“If Dra­co suc­ceeds,” said Snape, still look­ing away from her, “he will be hon­ored above all oth­ers.”

“But he won’t suc­ceed!” sobbed Nar­cis­sa. “How can he, when the Dark Lord him­self— ?”

Bel­la­trix gasped; Nar­cis­sa seemed to lose her nerve.

“I on­ly meant… that no­body has yet suc­ceed­ed… Severus… please… You are, you have al­ways been, Dra­co’s fa­vorite teach­er… You are Lu­cius’s old friend… I beg you… You are the Dark Lord’s fa­vorite, his most trust­ed ad­vi­sor… Will you speak to him, per­suade him — ?”

“The Dark Lord will not be per­suad­ed, and I am not stupid enough to at­tempt it,” said Snape flat­ly. “I can­not pre­tend that the Dark Lord is not an­gry with Lu­cius. Lu­cius was sup­posed to be in charge. He got him­self cap­tured, along with how many oth­ers, and failed to re­trieve the prophe­cy in­to the bar­gain. Yes, the Dark Lord is an­gry, Nar­cis­sa, very an­gry in­deed.”

“Then I am right, he has cho­sen Dra­co in re­venge!” choked Nar­cis­sa. “He does not mean him to suc­ceed, he wants him to be killed try­ing!”

When Snape said noth­ing, Nar­cis­sa seemed to lose what lit­tle sel­fre­straint she still pos­sessed. Stand­ing up, she stag­gered to Snape and seized the front of his robes. Her face close to his, her tears falling on­to his chest, she gasped, “You could do it. You could do it in­stead of Dra­co, Severus. You would suc­ceed, of course you would, and he would re­ward you be­yond all of us —”

Snape caught hold of her wrists and re­moved her clutch­ing hands. Look­ing down in­to her tearstained face, he said slow­ly, “He in­tends me to do it in the end, I think. But he is de­ter­mined that Dra­co should try first. You see, in the un­like­ly event that Dra­co suc­ceeds, I shall be able to re­main at Hog­warts a lit­tle longer, ful­fill­ing my use­ful role as spy.”

“In oth­er words, it doesn’t mat­ter to him if Dra­co is killed!”

“The Dark Lord is very an­gry,” re­peat­ed Snape qui­et­ly. “He failed to hear the prophe­cy. You know as well as I do, Nar­cis­sa, that he does not for­give eas­ily.”

She crum­pled, falling at his feet, sob­bing and moan­ing on the (loor.

“My on­ly son… my on­ly son…”

“You should be proud!” said Bel­la­trix ruth­less­ly. “If I had sons, I would be glad to give them up to the ser­vice of the Dark Lord!”

Nar­cis­sa gave a lit­tle scream of de­spair and clutched at her long blonde hair. Snape stooped, seized her by the arms, lift­ed her up, iind steered her back on­to the so­fa. He then poured her more wine iind forced the glass in­to her hand.

“Nar­cis­sa, that’s enough. Drink this. Lis­ten to me.”

She qui­et­ed a lit­tle; slop­ping wine down her­self, she took a shaky sip.

“It might be pos­si­ble… for me to help Dra­co.”

She sat up, her face pa­per­white, her eyes huge.

“Severus — oh, Severus — you would help him? Would you look af­ter him, see he comes to no harm?”

“I can try.”

She flung away her glass; it skid­ded across the ta­ble as she slid off the so­fa in­to a kneel­ing po­si­tion at Snape’s feet, seized his hand in both of hers, and pressed her lips to it.

“If you are there to pro­tect him… Severus, will you swear it? Will you make the Un­break­able Vow?”

“The Un­break­able Vow?”

Snape’s ex­pres­sion was blank, un­read­able. Bel­la­trix, how­ev­er, let out a cack­le of tri­umphant laugh­ter.

“Aren’t you lis­ten­ing, Nar­cis­sa? Oh, he’ll try, I’m sure… The usu­al emp­ty words, the usu­al slith­er­ing out of ac­tion… oh, on the Dark Lord’s or­ders, of course!”

Snape did not look at Bel­la­trix. His black eyes were fixed up­on Nar­cis­sa’s tearfilled blue ones as she con­tin­ued to clutch his hand.

“Cer­tain­ly, Nar­cis­sa, I shall make the Un­break­able Vow,” he said qui­et­ly. “Per­haps your sis­ter will con­sent to be our Bon­der.”

Bel­la­trix’s mouth fell open. Snape low­ered him­self so that he was kneel­ing op­po­site Nar­cis­sa. Be­neath Bel­la­trix’s as­ton­ished gaze, they grasped right hands.

“You will need your wand, Bel­la­trix,” said Snape cold­ly.

She drew it, still look­ing as­ton­ished.

“And you will need to move a lit­tle clos­er,” he said.

She stepped for­ward so that she stood over them, and placed the tip of her wand on their linked hands.

Nar­cis­sa spoke.

“Will you, Severus, watch over my son, Dra­co, as he at­tempts ta ful­fill the Dark Lord’s wish­es?”

“I will,” said Snape.

A thin tongue of bril­liant flame is­sued from the wand and wound its way around their hands like a red­hot wire.

“And will you, to the best of your abil­ity, pro­tect him from harm?”

“I will,” said Snape.

A sec­ond tongue of flame shot from the wand and in­ter­linked with the first, mak­ing a fine, glow­ing chain.

“And, should it prove nec­es­sary… if it seems Dra­co will fail…” whis­pered Nar­cis­sa (Snape’s hand twitched with­in hers, but he did not draw away), “will you car­ry out the deed that the Dark Lord has or­dered Dra­co to per­form?”

There was a mo­ment’s si­lence. Bel­la­trix watched, her wand up­on their clasped hands, her eyes wide.

“I will,” said Snape.

Bel­la­trix’s as­tound­ed face glowed red in the blaze of a third unique flame, which shot from the wand, twist­ed with the oth­ers, and bound it­self thick­ly around their clasped hands, like a fiery snake.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 3: Will And Won’t


Har­ry Pot­ter was snor­ing loud­ly. He had been sit­ting in a chair be­side his bed­room win­dow for the best part of four hours, star­ing out at the dark­en­ing street, and had fi­nal­ly fall­en asleep with one side of his face pressed against the cold win­dow­pane, his glass­es askew and his mouth wide open. The misty fug his breath had left on the win­dow sparkled in the or­ange glare of the street­lamp out­side, and the ar­ti­fi­cial light drained his face of all col­or, so that he looked ghost­ly be­neath his shock of un­tidy black hair.

The room was strewn with var­ious pos­ses­sions and a good smat­ter­ing of rub­bish. Owl feath­ers, ap­ple cores, and sweet wrap­pers lit­tered the floor, a num­ber of spell­books lay hig­gledyp­ig­gledy among the tan­gled robes on his bed, and a mess of news­pa­pers sat in a pud­dle of light on his desk. The head­line of one blared:

HAR­RY POT­TER: THE CHO­SEN ONE?

Ru­mors con­tin­ue to fly about the mys­te­ri­ous re­cent dis­tur­bance at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, dur­ing which He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named was sight­ed once more.

“We’re not al­lowed to talk about it, don’t ask me any­thing” said one ag­itat­ed Oblivi­ator, who re­fused to give his name as he left the Min­istry last night.

Nev­er­the­less, high­ly placed sources with­in the Min­istry have con­firmed that the dis­tur­bance cen­tered on the fa­bled Hall of Prophe­cy.

Though Min­istry spokeswiz­ards have hith­er­to re­fused even to con­firm the ex­is­tence of such a place, a grow­ing num­ber of the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty be­lieve that the Death Eaters now serv­ing sen­tences in Azk­aban for tres­pass and at­tempt­ed theft were at­tempt­ing to steal a prophe­cy. The na­ture of that prophe­cy is un­known, al­though spec­ula­tion is rife that it con­cerns Har­ry Pot­ter, the on­ly per­son ev­er known to have sur­vived the Killing Curse, and who is al­so known to have been at the Min­istry on the night in ques­tion. Some are go­ing so far as to call Pot­ter “the Cho­sen One,” be­liev­ing that the prophe­cy names him as the on­ly one who will be able to rid us of He­Who­Must­No tBe­Named.

The cur­rent where­abouts of the prophe­cy, if it ex­ists, are un­known, al­though {ctd. page2, col­umn 5)

A sec­ond news­pa­per lay be­side die first. This one bore die head­line:

SCRIM­GEOUR SUC­CEEDS FUDGE

Most of this front page was tak­en up with a large blackand­white pic­ture of a man with a li­on­like mane of thick hair and a rather rav­aged face. The pic­ture was mov­ing — the man was wav­ing at the ceil­ing.

Ru­fus Scrim­geour, pre­vi­ous­ly Head of the Au­ror of­fice in the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, has suc­ceed­ed Cor­nelius Fudge as Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. The ap­point­ment has large­ly been greet­ed with en­thu­si­asm by the Wiz­ard­mg com­mu­ni­ty, though ru­mors of a rift be­tween the new Min­is­ter and Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, new­ly re­in­stat­ed Chief War­lock of the Wiz­eng­amot, sur­faced with­in hours of Scrim­geour tak­ing of­fice.

Scrim­geours rep­re­sen­ta­tives ad­mit­ted that he had met with Dum­ble­dore at once up­on tak­ing pos­ses­sion of the top job, but re­fused to com­ment on the top­ics un­der dis­cus­sion. Al­bus Dum­ble­dore is known to (ctd. page 3, col­umn 2)

To the left of this pa­per sat an­oth­er, which had been fold­ed so that a sto­ry bear­ing the ti­tle min­istry guar­an­tees stu­dents’ sapety was vis­ible.

New­ly ap­point­ed Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, Ru­fus Scrim­geour, spoke to­day of the tough new mea­sures tak­en by his Min­istry to en­sure the safe­ty of stu­dents re­turn­ing to Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry this au­tumn.

“For ob­vi­ous rea­sons, the Min­istry will not be go­ing in­to de­tail about its strin­gent new se­cu­ri­ty plans,” said the Min­is­ter, al­though an in­sid­er con­firmed that mea­sures in­clude de­fen­sive spells and charms, a com­plex ar­ray of coun­ter­curs­es, and a small task force of Au­rors ded­icat­ed sole­ly to the pro­tec­tion of Hog­warts School.

Most seem re­as­sured by the new Min­is­ter’s tough stand on stu­dent safe­ty. Said Mrs. Au­gus­ta Long­bot­tom, “My grand­son, Neville — a good friend of Har­ry Pot­ter’s, in­ci­den­tal­ly, who fought the Death Eaters along­side him at the Min­istry in June and —

But the rest of this sto­ry was ob­scured by the large bird­cage.stand­ing on top of it. In­side it was a mag­nif­icent snowy owl. Her am­ber eyes sur­veyed the room im­pe­ri­ous­ly, her head swiv­el­ing oc­ca­sion­al­ly to gaze at her snor­ing mas­ter. Once or twice she clicked her beak im­pa­tient­ly, but Har­ry was too deeply asleep to hear her.

A large trunk stood in the very mid­dle of the room. Its lid was open; it looked ex­pec­tant; yet it was al­most emp­ty but for a residue of old un­der­wear, sweets, emp­ty ink bot­tles, and bro­ken quills that

coat­ed the very bot­tom. Near­by, on the floor, lay a pur­ple leaflet em­bla­zoned with the words:

—-IS­SUED ON BE­HALF OF—-

The Min­istry of Mag­ic

PRO­TECT­ING YOUR HOME AND FAM­ILY AGAINST DARK FORCES

The Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly un­der threat from an or­ga­ni­za­tion call­ing it­self the Death Eaters. Ob­serv­ing the fol­low­ing sim­ple se­cu­ri­ty guide­lines will help pro­tect you, your fam­ily, and your home from at­tack.

1. You are ad­vised not to leave the house alone.

2. Par­tic­ular care should be tak­en dur­ing the hours of dark­ness. Wher­ev­er pos­si­ble, ar­range to com­plete jour­neys be­fore night has fall­en.

3. Re­view the se­cu­ri­ty ar­range­ments around your house, mak­ing sure that all fam­ily mem­bers are aware of emer­gen­cy mea­sures such as Shield and Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charms, and, in the case of un­der­age fam­ily mem­bers, Side­Alon­gAp­pari­tion.

4. Agree on se­cu­ri­ty ques­tions with close friends and fam­ily so as to de­tect Death Eaters mas­quer­ad­ing as oth­ers by use of the Polyjuice Po­tion (see page 2).

5. Should you feel that a fam­ily mem­ber, col­league, friend, or neigh­bor is act­ing in a strange man­ner, con­tact the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad at once. They may have been put un­der the Im­perius Curse (see page 4).

6. Should the Dark Mark ap­pear over any dwelling place or oth­er build­ing, DO NOT EN­TER, but con­tact the Au­ror of­fice im­me­di­ate­ly.

7. Un­con­firmed sight­in­gs sug­gest that the Death Eaters may now be us­ing In­feri (see page 10). Any sight­ing of an In­ferius, or en­counter with same, should be re­port­ed to the Min­istry IM­ME­DI­ATE­LY.

Har­ry grunt­ed in his sleep and his face slid down the win­dow an inch or so, mak­ing his glass­es still more lop­sid­ed, but he did not wake up. An alarm clock, re­paired by Har­ry sev­er­al years ago, ticked loud­ly on the sill, show­ing one minute to eleven. Be­side it, held in place by Har­ry’s re­laxed hand, was a piece of parch­ment cov­ered in thin, slant­ing writ­ing. Har­ry had read this let­ter so of­ten since its ar­ri­val three days ago that al­though it had been de­liv­ered in a tight­ly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat.

Dear Har­ry,

If it is con­ve­nient to you, I shall call at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive this com­ing Fri­day at eleven p.m. to es­cort you to the Bur­row, where you have been in­vit­ed to spend the re­main­der of your school hol­idays.

If you are agree­able, I should al­so be glad of your as­sis­tance in a mat­ter to which I hope to at­tend on the way to the Bur­row. I shall ex­plain this more ful­ly when I see you.

Kind­ly send your an­swer by re­turn of this owl. Hop­ing to see you this Fri­day,

I am yours most sin­cere­ly,

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore

Though he al­ready knew it by heart, Har­ry had been steal­ing glances at this mis­sive ev­ery few min­utes since sev­en o’clock that evening, when he had first tak­en up his po­si­tion be­side his bed­room win­dow, which had a rea­son­able view of both ends of Priv­et Drive. He knew it was point­less to keep reread­ing Dum­ble­dore’s words; Har­ry had sent back his “yes” with the de­liv­er­ing owl, as re­quest­ed, and all he could do now was wait: Ei­ther Dum­ble­dore was go­ing to come, or he was not.

But Har­ry had not packed. It just seemed too good to be true that he was go­ing to be res­cued from the Durs­leys af­ter a mere fort­night of their com­pa­ny. He could not shrug off the feel­ing that some­thing was go­ing to go wrong — his re­ply to Dum­ble­dore’s let­ter might have gone astray; Dum­ble­dore could be pre­vent­ed from col­lect­ing him; the let­ter might turn out not to be from Dum­ble­dore at all, but a trick or joke or trap. Har­ry had not been able to face pack­ing and then be­ing let down and hav­ing to un­pack again. The on­ly ges­ture he had made to the pos­si­bil­ity of a jour­ney was to shut his snowy owl, Hed­wig, safe­ly in her cage.

The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the num­ber twelve and, at that pre­cise mo­ment, the street­lamp out­side the win­dow went out.

Har­ry awoke as though the sud­den dark­ness were an alarm. Hasti­ly straight­en­ing his glass­es and un­stick­ing his cheek from the glass, he pressed his nose against the win­dow in­stead and squint­ed down at the pave­ment. A tall fig­ure in a long, bil­low­ing cloak was walk­ing up the gar­den path.

Har­ry jumped up as though he had re­ceived an elec­tric shock, knocked over his chair, and start­ed snatch­ing any­thing and ev­ery­thing with­in reach from the floor and throw­ing it in­to the trunk. Then as he lobbed a set of robes, two spell­books, and a pack­et of clasps across the room, the door­bell rang. Down­stairs in the liv­ing room his Un­cle Ver­non shout­ed, “Who the blazes is call­ing at this lime of night?”

Har­ry froze with a brass tele­scope in one hand and a pair of train­ers in the oth­er. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten to warn the Durs­leys that Dum­ble­dore might be com­ing. Feel­ing both pan­icky mid close to laugh­ter, he clam­bered over the trunk and wrenched open his bed­room door in time to hear a deep voice say, “Good evening. You must be Mr. Durs­ley. I dare­say Har­ry has told you I would be com­ing for him?”

Har­ry ran down the stairs two at a time, com­ing to an abrupt halt sev­er­al steps from the bot­tom, as long ex­pe­ri­ence had taught him to re­main out of arm’s reach of his un­cle when­ev­er pos­si­ble. There in the door­way stood a tall, thin man with waistlength sil­ver hair and beard. Half­moon spec­ta­cles were perched on his crooked nose, and he was wear­ing a long black trav­el­ing cloak and.1 point­ed hat. Ver­non Durs­ley, whose mus­tache was quite as bushy as Dum­ble­dore’s, though black, and who was wear­ing a puce dress­ing gown, was star­ing at the vis­itor as though he could not be­lieve his tiny eyes.

“Judg­ing by your look of stunned dis­be­lief, Har­ry did not warn you that I was com­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly. “How­ev­er, let us as­sume that you have in­vit­ed me warm­ly in­to your house. It is un­wise to linger over­long on doorsteps in these trou­bled times.”

He stepped smart­ly over the thresh­old and closed the front door be­hind him.

“It is a long time since my last vis­it,” said Dum­ble­dore, peer­ing down his crooked nose at Un­cle Ver­non. “I must say, your aga­pan­thus are flour­ish­ing.”

Ver­non Durs­ley said noth­ing at all. Har­ry did not doubt that speech would re­turn to him, and soon — the vein puls­ing in his un­cles tem­ple was reach­ing dan­ger point — but some­thing about Dum­ble­dore seemed to have robbed him tem­po­rar­ily of breath. It might have been the bla­tant wiz­ardish­ness of his ap­pear­an­ce, but it might, too, have been that even Un­cle Ver­non could sense that here was a man whom it would be very dif­fi­cult to bul­ly.

“Ah, good evening Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing up at him through his half­moon glass­es with a most sat­is­fied ex­pres­sion. “Ex­cel­lent, ex­cel­lent.”

These words seemed to rouse Un­cle Ver­non. It was clear that as far as he was con­cerned, any man who could look at Har­ry and say “ex­cel­lent” was a man with whom he could nev­er see eye to eye.

“I don’t mean to be rude —” he be­gan, in a tone that threat­ened rude­ness in ev­ery syl­la­ble.

“–yet, sad­ly, ac­ci­den­tal rude­ness oc­curs alarm­ing­ly of­ten,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished the sen­tence grave­ly. “Best to say noth­ing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this must be Petu­nia.”

The kitchen door had opened, and there stood Har­ry’s aunt, wear­ing rub­ber gloves and a house­coat over her night­dress, clear­ly halfway through her usu­al prebed­time wipedown of all the kitchen sur­faces. Her rather horsey face reg­is­tered noth­ing but shock.

“Al­bus Dum­ble­dore,” said Dum­ble­dore, when Un­cle Ver­non failed to ef­fect an in­tro­duc­tion. “We have cor­re­spond­ed, of course.” Har­ry thought this an odd way of re­mind­ing Aunt Petu­nia that he had once sent her an ex­plod­ing let­ter, but Aunt Petu­nia did not chal­lenge the term. “And this must be your son, Dud­ley?”

Dud­ley had that mo­ment peered round the liv­ing room door, his large, blond head ris­ing out of the stripy col­lar of his pa­ja­mas looked odd­ly dis­em­bod­ied, his mouth gap­ing in as­ton­ish­ment and I car. Dum­ble­dore wait­ed a mo­ment or two, ap­par­ent­ly to see whether any of the Durs­leys were go­ing to say any­thing, but as the •.il­cncc stretched on he smiled.

“Shall we as­sume that you have in­vit­ed me in­to your sit­ting room?”

Dud­ley scram­bled out of the way as Dum­ble­dore passed him. I lur­ry, still clutch­ing the tele­scope and train­ers, jumped the last lew stairs and fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore, who had set­tled him­self in i he arm­chair near­est the fire and was tak­ing in the sur­round­in­gs wilh an ex­pres­sion of be­nign in­ter­est. He looked quite ex­traor­di­nar­ily out of place.

“Aren’t —- aren’t we leav­ing, sir?” Har­ry asked anx­ious­ly.

“Yes, in­deed we are, but there are a few mat­ters we need to disi us.s first,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And I would pre­fer not to do so in (he open. We shall tres­pass up­on your aunt and un­cle’s hos­pi­tal­ity on­ly a lit­tle longer.”

“You will, will you?”

Ver­non Durs­ley had en­tered the room, Petu­nia at his shoul­der, iind Dud­ley skulk­ing be­hind them both.

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply, “I shall.”

He drew his wand so rapid­ly that Har­ry bare­ly saw it; with a ca­su­al flick, the so­fa zoomed for­ward and knocked the knees out from un­der all three of the Durs­leys so that they col­lapsed up­on it in a heap. An­oth­er flick of the wand and the so­fa zoomed back to its orig­in­al po­si­tion.

“We may as well be com­fort­able,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly.

As he re­placed his wand in his pock­et, Har­ry saw that his hand was black­ened and shriv­eled; it looked as though his flesh had been burned away. ¦¦ ¦ • <¦’•¦

“Sir — what hap­pened to your — ?”

“Lat­er, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Please sit down.”

Har­ry took the re­main­ing arm­chair, choos­ing not to look at the Durs­leys, who seemed stunned in­to si­lence.

“I would as­sume that you were go­ing to of­fer me re­fresh­ment,” Dum­ble­dore said to Un­cle Ver­non, “but the ev­idence so far sug­gests that that would be op­ti­mist­ic to the point of fool­ish­ness.”

A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty bot­tle and five glass­es ap­peared in midair. The bot­tle tipped and poured a gen­er­ous mea­sure of hon­ey­col­ored liq­uid in­to each of the glass­es, which then float­ed to each per­son in the room.

“Madam Ros­mer­tas finest oak­ma­tured mead,” said Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing his glass to Har­ry, who caught hold of his own and sipped. He had nev­er tast­ed any­thing like it be­fore, but en­joyed it im­mense­ly. The Durs­leys, af­ter quick, scared looks at one an­oth­er, tried to ig­nore their glass­es com­plete­ly, a dif­fi­cult feat, as they were nudg­ing them gen­tly on the sides of their heads. Har­ry could not sup­press a sus­pi­cion that Dum­ble­dore was rather en­joy­ing him­self.

“Well, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, turn­ing to­ward him, “a dif­fi­cul­ty has arisen which I hope you will be able to solve for us. By us, I mean the Or­der of the Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Sir­ius’s will was dis­cov­ered a week ago and that he left you ev­ery­ihing he owned.”

Over on the so­fa, Un­cle Ver­nons head turned, but Har­ry did not look at him, nor could he think of any­thing to say ex­cept, “Oh. Right.”

“This is, in the main, fair­ly straight­for­ward,” Dum­ble­dore went on. “You add a rea­son­able amount of gold to your ac­count at (iringotts, and you in­her­it all of Sir­ius’s per­son­al pos­ses­sions. The slight­ly prob­lem­at­ic part of the lega­cy —”

“His god­fa­ther’s dead?” said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly from the so­fa. 1 )um­ble­dore and Har­ry both turned to look at him. The glass of mead was now knock­ing quite in­sis­tent­ly on the side of Ver­nons head; he at­tempt­ed to beat it away. “He’s dead? His god­fa­ther?”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. He did not ask Har­ry why he had not con­fid­ed in the Durs­leys. “Our prob­lem,” he con­tin­ued to Har­ry, as if there had been no in­ter­rup­tion, “is that Sir­ius al­so left you num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place.”

“He’s been left a house?” said Un­cle Ver­non greed­ily, his small eyes nar­row­ing, but no­body an­swered him.

“You can keep us­ing it as head­quar­ters,” said Har­ry. “I don’t care. You can have it, I don’t re­al­ly want it.” Har­ry nev­er want­ed to set foot in num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place again if he could help it. He thought he would be haunt­ed for­ev­er by the mem­ory of Sir­ius prowl­ing its dark musty rooms alone, im­pris­oned with­in the place he had want­ed so des­per­ate­ly to leave.

“That is gen­er­ous,” said Dum­ble­dore. “We have, how­ev­er, va­cat­ed the build­ing tem­po­rar­ily.”

“Why?”

“Well,” said Dum­ble­dore, ig­nor­ing the mut­ter­in­gs of Un­cle Ver­non, who was now be­ing rapped smart­ly over the head by the per­sis­tent glass of mead, “Black fam­ily tra­di­tion de­creed that the house was hand­ed down the di­rect line, to the next male with the name of ‘Black.’ Sir­ius was the very last of the line as his younger broth­er, Reg­ulus, pre­de­ceased him and both were child­less. While his will makes it per­fect­ly plain that he wants you to have the house, it is nev­er­the­less pos­si­ble that some spell or en­chant­ment has been set up­on the place to en­sure that it can­not be owned by any­one oth­er than a pure­blood.”

A vivid im­age of the shriek­ing, spit­ting por­trait of Sir­ius’s moth­er that hung in the hall of num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place flashed in­to Har­ry’s mind. “I bet there has,” he said.

“Quite,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And if such an en­chant­ment ex­ists, then the own­er­ship of the house is most like­ly to pass to the el­dest of Sir­ius’s liv­ing rel­atives, which would mean his cousin, Bel­la­trix Lestrange.”

With­out re­al­iz­ing what he was do­ing, Har­ry sprang to his feet; the tele­scope and train­ers in his lap rolled across the floor. Bel­la­trix Lestrange, Sir­ius’s killer, in­her­it his house?

“No,” he said.

“Well, ob­vi­ous­ly we would pre­fer that she didn’t get it ei­ther,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “The sit­ua­tion is fraught with com­pli­ca­tions. We do not know whether the en­chant­ments we our­selves have placed up­on it, for ex­am­ple, mak­ing it Un­plot­ta­ble, will hold now that own­er­ship has passed from Sir­ius’s hands. It might be that Bel­la­trix will ar­rive on the doorstep at any mo­ment. Nat­ural­ly we had to move out un­til such time as we have clar­ified the po­si­tion,”

“But how are you go­ing to find out if I’m al­lowed to own it?”

“For­tu­nate­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore, “there is a sim­ple test.”

He placed his emp­ty glass on a small ta­ble be­side his chair, but be­fore he could do any­thing else, Un­cle Ver­non shout­ed, “Will you get these rud­dy things off us?”

Har­ry looked around; all three of the Durs­leys were cow­er­ing with their arms over their heads as their glass­es bounced up and down on their skulls, their con­tents fly­ing ev­ery­where.

“Oh, I’m so sor­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly, and he raised his wand again. All three glass­es van­ished. “But it would have been bet­ter man­ners to drink it, you know.”

It looked as though Un­cle Ver­non was burst­ing with any num­ber of un­pleas­ant re­torts, but he mere­ly shrank back in­to the cush­ions with Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley and said noth­ing, keep­ing his small pig­gy eyes on Dum­ble­dore’s wand.

“You see,” Dum­ble­dore said, turn­ing back to Har­ry and again speak­ing as though Un­cle Ver­non had not ut­tered, “if you have in­deed in­her­it­ed the house, you have al­so in­her­it­ed —”

He flicked his wand for a fifth time. There was a loud crack, and a house­elf ap­peared, with a snout for a nose, gi­ant bat’s ears, and enor­mous blood­shot eyes, crouch­ing on the Durs­leys’ shag car­pet and cov­ered in grimy rags. Aunt Petu­nia let out a hair­rais­ing shriek; noth­ing this filthy had en­tered her house in liv­ing mem­ory. Dud­ley drew his large, bare, pink feet off the floor and sat with them raised al­most above his head, as though he thought the crea­ture might run up his pa­ja­ma trousers, and Un­cle Ver­non bel­lowed, “What the hell is that?”

“Kreach­er,” fin­ished Dum­ble­dore.

“Kreach­er won’t, Kreach­er won’t, Kreach­er won’t!” croaked the house­elf, quite as loud­ly as Un­cle Ver­non, stamp­ing his long, gnarled feet and pulling lii.s ears. “Kreach­er be­longs to Miss Bel­la­trix, oh yes, Kreach­er be­longs to the Blacks, Kreach­er wants his new mis­tress, Kreach­er won’t go to the Pot­ter brat, Kreach­er won’t, won’t, won’t —”

“As you can see, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore loud­ly, over Kreach­er’s con­tin­ued croaks of “wont, won’t, won’t,” “Kreach­er is show­ing a cer­tain re­luc­tance to pass in­to your own­er­ship.”

“I don’t care,” said Har­ry again, look­ing with dis­gust at the writhing, stamp­ing house­elf. “I don’t want him.”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —”

“You would pre­fer him to pass in­to the own­er­ship of Bel­la­trix Lestrange? Bear­ing in mind that he has lived at the head­quar­ters of the Or­der of the Phoenix for the past year?”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, won’t —”

Har­ry stared at Dum­ble­dore. He knew that Kreach­er could not be per­mit­ted to go and live with Bel­la­trix Lestrange, but the idea of own­ing him, of hav­ing re­spon­si­bil­ity for the crea­ture that had be­trayed Sir­ius, was re­pug­nant.

“Give him an or­der,” said Dum­ble­dore. “If he has passed in­to your own­er­ship, he will have to obey. If not, then we shall have to think of some oth­er means of keep­ing him from his right­ful mis­tress.”

“Won’t, won’t, won’t, WON’T!”

Kreach­er’s voice had risen to a scream. Har­ry could think of noth­ing to say, ex­cept, “Kreach­er, shut up!”

It looked for a mo­ment as though Kreach­er was go­ing to choke. He grabbed his throat, his mouth still work­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, his eyes bulging. Af­ter a few sec­onds of fran­tic gulp­ing, he threw him­self face for­ward on­to the car­pet (Aunt Petu­nia whim­pered) and beat the floor with his hands and feet, giv­ing him­self over to a vi­olent, but en­tire­ly silent, tantrum.

“Well, that sim­pli­fies mat­ters,” said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly. “It means that Sir­ius knew what he was do­ing. You are the right­ful own­er of num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place and of Kreach­er.”

“Do I — do I have to keep him with me?” Har­ry asked, aghast, us Kreach­er thrashed around at his feet.

“Not if you don’t want to,” said Dum­ble­dore. “If I might make ii sug­ges­tion, you could send him to Hog­warts to work in the kitchen there. In that way, the oth­er house­elves could keep an eye on him.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry in re­lief, “yeah, I’ll do that. Er — Kreach­er — I want you to go to Hog­warts and work in the kitchens there with the oth­er house­elves.”

Kreach­er, who was now ly­ing flat on his back with his arms and legs in the air, gave Har­ry one up­side­down look of deep­est loathing and, with an­oth­er loud crack, van­ished.

“Good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is al­so the mat­ter of the hip­pogriff, Buck­beak. Ha­grid has been look­ing af­ter him since Sir­ius died, but Buck­beak is yours now, so if you would pre­fer to make dif­fer­ent ar­range­ments —”

“No,” said Har­ry at once, “he can stay with Ha­grid. I think Buck­beak would pre­fer that.”

“Ha­grid will be de­light­ed,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “He was thrilled to see Buck­beak again. In­ci­den­tal­ly, we have de­cid­ed, in the in­ter­ests of Buck­beak’s safe­ty, to rechris­ten him ‘With­er­wings’ for the time be­ing, though I doubt that the Min­istry would ev­er guess he is the hip­pogriff they once sen­tenced to death. Now, Har­ry, is your trunk packed?”

Erm…

“Doubt­ful that I would turn up?” Dum­ble­dore sug­gest­ed shrewd­ly.

“I’ll just go and — er — fin­ish off,” said Har­ry hasti­ly, hur­ry­ing to pick up his fall­en tele­scope and train­ers.

It took him a lit­tle over ten min­utes to track down ev­ery­thing he need­ed; at last he had man­aged to ex­tract his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from un­der the bed, screwed the top back on his jar of col­or­change ink, and forced the lid of his trunk shut on his caul­dron. Then, heav­ing his trunk in one hand and hold­ing Hed­wig’s cage in the oth­er, he made his way back down­stairs,

He was dis­ap­point­ed to dis­cov­er that Dum­ble­dore was not wait­ing in the hall, which meant that he had to re­turn to the liv­ing room.

No­body was talk­ing. Dum­ble­dore was hum­ming qui­et­ly, ap­par­ent­ly quite at his ease, but the at­mo­sphere was thick­er than cold cus­tard, and Har­ry did not dare look at the Durs­leys as he said, “Pro­fes­sor — I’m ready now.”

“Good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Just one last thing, then.” And he turned to speak to the Durs­leys once more.

“As you will no doubt be aware, Har­ry comes of age in a years time —”

“No,” said Aunt Petu­nia, speak­ing for the first time since Dum­ble­dore’s ar­ri­val.

“I’m sor­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly.

“No, he doesn’t. He’s a month younger than Dud­ley, and Dud­ders doesn’t turn eigh­teen un­til the year af­ter next.”

“Ah,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly, “but in the Wiz­ard­ing world, we come of age at sev­en­teen.”

Un­cle Ver­noii mut­tered, “Pre­pos­ter­ous,” but Dum­ble­dore ig­nored him,

“Now, as you al­ready know, the wiz­ard called Lord Volde­mort Was re­turned to this coun­try. The Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly in a state of open war­fare. Har­ry, whom Lord Volde­mort has al­ready at­tempt­ed to kill on a num­ber of oc­ca­sions, is in even greater dan­ger now than the day when I left him up­on your doorstep fif­teen years ago, with a let­ter ex­plain­ing about his par­ents’ mur­der and ex­press­ing the hope that you would care for him ;is though he were your own.”

Dum­ble­dore paused, and al­though his voice re­mained light and calm, and he gave no ob­vi­ous sign of anger, Har­ry felt a kind of chill em­anat­ing from him and no­ticed that the Durs­leys drew very slight­ly clos­er to­geth­er.

“You did not do as I asked. You have nev­er treat­ed Har­ry as a son. He has known noth­ing but ne­glect and of­ten cru­el­ty at your hands. The best that can be said is that he has at least es­caped the ap­palling dam­age you have in­flict­ed up­on the un­for­tu­nate boy sit­ting be­tween you.”

Both Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non looked around in­stin­clive­ly, as though ex­pect­ing to see some­one oth­er than Dud­ley squeezed be­tween them.

“Us — mis­treat Dud­ders? What d’you — ?” be­gan Un­cle Ver­non fu­ri­ous­ly, but Dum­ble­dore raised his ringer for si­lence, a si­lence which fell as though he had struck Un­cle Ver­non dumb.

“The mag­ic I evoked fif­teen years ago means that Har­ry has pow­er­ful pro­tec­tion while he can still call this house ‘home.’ How­ev­er mis­er­able he has been here, how­ev­er un­wel­come, how­ev­er bad­ly treat­ed, you have at least, grudg­ing­ly, al­lowed him house­room. This mag­ic will cease to op­er­ate the mo­ment that Har­ry turns sev­en­teen; in oth­er words, at the mo­ment he be­comes a man. I ask on­ly this: that you al­low Har­ry to re­turn, once more, to this house, be­fore his sev­en­teenth birth­day, which will en­sure that the pro­tec­tion con­tin­ues un­til that time.”

None of the Durs­leys said any­thing. Dud­ley was frown­ing slight­ly, as though he was still try­ing to work out when he had ev­er been mis­treat­ed. Un­cle Ver­non looked as though he had some­thing stuck in his throat; Aunt Petu­nia, how­ev­er, was odd­ly flushed.

“Well, Har­ry… time for us to be off,” said Dum­ble­dore at last, stand­ing up and straight­en­ing his long black cloak. “Un­til we meet again,” he said to the Durs­leys, who looked as though that mo­ment could wait for­ev­er as far as they were con­cerned, and af­ter doff­ing his hat, he swept from the room.

“Bye,” said Har­ry hasti­ly to the Durs­leys, and fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore, who paused be­side Har­ry’s trunk, up­on which Hed­wig’s cage was perched.

“We do not want to be en­cum­bered by these just now,” he said, pulling out his wand again. “I shall send them to the Bur­row to await us there. How­ev­er, I would like you to bring your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak… just in case.”

Har­ry ex­tract­ed his cloak from his trunk with some dif­fi­cul­ty, try­ing not to show Dum­ble­dore the mess with­in. When he had stuffed it in­to an in­side pock­et of his jack­et, Dumb­iedore waved his wand and the trunk, cage, and Hed­wig van­ished. Dum­ble­dore then waved his wand again, and the front door opened on­to cool, misty dark­ness.

“And now, Har­ry, let us step out in­to the night and pur­sue that flighty temptress, ad­ven­ture.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 4: Horace Slughorn


De­spite the fact that he had spent ev­ery wak­ing mo­ment of the past few days hop­ing des­per­ate­ly that Dum­ble­dore would in­deed come to fetch him, Har­ry felt dis­tinct­ly awk­ward as they set off down Priv­et Drive to­geth­er. He had nev­er had a prop­er con­ver­sa­tion with the head­mas­ter out­side of Hog­warts be­fore; there was usu­al­ly a desk be­tween them. The mem­ory of their last faceto­face en­counter kept in­trud­ing too, and it rather height­ened Har­ry’s sense of em­bar­rass­ment; he had shout­ed a lot on that oc­ca­sion, not to men­tion done his best to smash sev­er­al of Dum­ble­dore’s most prized pos­ses­sions.

Dum­ble­dore, how­ev­er, seemed com­plete­ly re­laxed.

“Keep your wand at the ready, Har­ry,” he said bright­ly.

“But I thought I’m not al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side school, sir?”

“If there is an at­tack,” said Dum­ble­dore, “I give you per­mis­sion to use any coun­ter­jinx or curse that might oc­cur to you. How­ev­er, I do not think you need wor­ry about be­ing at­tacked tonight.”

“Why not, sir?”

“You are with me,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply. “This will do, Har­ry.”

He came to an abrupt halt at the end of Priv­et Drive.

“You have not, of course, passed your Ap­pari­tion Test,” he said.

“No,” said Har­ry. “I thought you had to be sev­en­teen?”

“You do,” said Dum­ble­dore. “So you will need to hold on to my arm very tight­ly. My left, if you don’t mind — as you have no­ticed, my wand arm is a lit­tle frag­ile at the mo­ment.”

Har­ry gripped Dum­ble­dore’s prof­fered fore­arm.

“Very good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Well, here we go.”

Har­ry felt Dum­ble­dore’s arm twist away from him and re­dou­bled his grip; the next thing he knew, ev­ery­thing went black; he was be­ing pressed very hard from all di­rec­tions; he could not breathe, there were iron bands tight­en­ing around his chest; his eye­balls were be­ing forced back in­to his head; his eardrums were be­ing pushed deep­er in­to his skull and then —-

He gulped great lung­fulls of cold night air and opened his stream­ing eyes. He felt as though he had just been forced through a very tight rub­ber tube. It was a few sec­onds be­fore he re­al­ized that Priv­et Drive had van­ished. He and Dum­ble­dore were now stand­ing in what ap­peared to be a de­sert­ed vil­lage square, in the cen­ter of which stood an old war memo­ri­al and a few bench­es. His com­pre­hen­sion catch­ing up with his sens­es, Har­ry re­al­ized that he had just Ap­pa­rat­ed for the first time in his life.

“Are you all right?” asked Dum­ble­dore, look­ing down at him so­lic­itous­ly. “The sen­sa­tion does take some get­ting used to.”

“I’m fine,” said Har­ry, rub­bing his ears, which felt as though they had left Priv­et Drive rather re­luc­tant­ly. “But I think I might pre­fer brooms…”

Dum­ble­dore smiled, drew his trav­el­ing cloak a lit­tle more light­ly around his neck, and said, “This way.”

He set off at a brisk pace, past an emp­ty inn and a few hous­es. Ac­cord­ing to a clock on a near­by church, it was al­most mid­night.

“So tell me, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Your scar… has it been hurt­ing at all?”

Har­ry raised a hand un­con­scious­ly to his fore­head and rubbed i he light­ning­shaped mark.

“No,” he said, “and I’ve been won­der­ing about that. I thought it would be burn­ing all the time now Volde­mort’s get­ting so pow­er­ful again.”

He glanced up at Dum­ble­dore and saw that he was wear­ing a sat­is­fied ex­pres­sion.

“I, on the oth­er hand, thought oth­er­wise,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Lord Volde­mort has fi­nal­ly re­al­ized the dan­ger­ous ac­cess to his thoughts and feel­in­gs you have been en­joy­ing. It ap­pears that he is now em­ploy­ing Oc­clu­men­cy against you.”

“Well, I’m not com­plain­ing,” said Har­ry, who missed nei­ther the dis­turb­ing dreams nor the startling flash­es of in­sight in­to Volde­mort’s mind.

They turned a cor­ner, pass­ing a tele­phone box and a bus shel­ter. Har­ry looked side­ways at Dum­ble­dore again. “Pro­fes­sor?”

“Har­ry?”

“Er — where ex­act­ly are we?”

“This, Har­ry, is the charm­ing vil­lage of Budleigh Bab­ber­ton.”

“And what are we do­ing here?”

“Ah yes, of course, I haven’t told you,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Well, I have lost count of the num­ber of times I have said this in re­cent years, but we are, once again, one mem­ber of staff short. We are here to per­suade an old col­league of mine to come out of re­tire­ment and re­turn to Hog­warts.”

“How can I help with that, sir?”

“Oh, I think we’ll find a use for you,” said Dum­ble­dore vague­ly. “Left here, Har­ry.”

They pro­ceed­ed up a steep, nar­row street lined with hous­es. All the win­dows were dark. The odd chill that had lain over Priv­et Drive for two weeks per­sist­ed here too. Think­ing of de­men­tors, Har­ry cast a look over his shoul­der and grasped his wand re­as­sur­ing­ly in his pock­et.

“Pro­fes­sor, why couldn’t we just Ap­pa­rate di­rect­ly in­to your old col­league’s house?”

“Be­cause it would be quite as rude as kick­ing down the front door,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Cour­tesy dic­tates that we of­fer fel­low wiz­ards the op­por­tu­ni­ty of de­ny­ing us en­try. In any case, most Wiz­ard­ing dwellings are mag­ical­ly pro­tect­ed from un­want­ed Ap­pa­ra­tors. At Hog­warts, for in­stance —”

“— you can’t Ap­pa­rate any­where in­side the build­in­gs or grounds,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Hermione Granger told me.”

“And she is quite right. We turn left again.”

The church clock chimed mid­night be­hind them. Har­ry won­dered why Dum­ble­dore did not con­sid­er it rude to call on his old col­league so late, but now that con­ver­sa­tion had been es­tab­lished, he had more press­ing ques­tions to ask.

“Sir, I saw in the Dai­ly Prophet that Fudge has been sacked…”

“Cor­rect,” said Dum­ble­dore, now turn­ing up a steep side street. “He has been re­placed, as ] am sure you al­so saw, by Ru­fus Scrim­geour, who used to be Head of the Au­ror of­fice.”

“Is he… Do you think he’s good?” asked Har­ry.

“An in­ter­est­ing ques­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He is able, cer­tain­ly. A more de­ci­sive and force­ful per­son­al­ity than Cor­nelius.”

“Yes, but I meant —”

“I know what you meant. Ru­fus is a man of ac­tion and, hav­ing fought Dark wiz­ards for most of his work­ing life, does not un­deres­ti­mate Lord Volde­mort.”

Har­ry wait­ed, but Dum­ble­dore did not say any­thing about the dis­agree­ment with Scrim­geour that the Dai­ly Prophet had re­port­ed, and he did not have the nerve to pur­sue the sub­ject, so he changed ii. “And… sir… I saw about Madam Bones.”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “A ter­ri­ble loss. She was a great witch. Just up here, I think — ouch.”

He had point­ed with his in­ju­red hand.

“Pro­fes­sor, what hap­pened to your … ?”

“I have no time to ex­plain now,” said Dum­ble­dore. “It is a thrilling tale, I wish to do it jus­tice.”

He smiled at Har­ry, who un­der­stood that he was not be­ing snubbed, and that he had per­mis­sion to keep ask­ing ques­tions.

“Sir — I got a Min­istry of Mag­ic leaflet by owl, about se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures we should all take against the Death Eaters…”

“Yes, I re­ceived one my­self,” said Dum­ble­dore, still smil­ing. “Did you find it use­ful?”

“Not re­al­ly.”

“No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for in­stance, what is my fa­vorite fla­vor of jam, to check that I am in­deed Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore and not an im­pos­tor.”

“I didn’t…” Har­ry be­gan, not en­tire­ly sure whether he was be­ing rep­ri­mand­ed or not.

“For fu­ture ref­er­ence, Har­ry, it is rasp­ber­ry… al­though of course, if I were a Death Eater, I would have been sure to re­search my own jam pref­er­ences be­fore im­per­son­at­ing my­self.”

“Er… right,” said Har­ry. “Well, on that leaflet, it said some­thing about In­feri. What ex­act­ly are they? The leaflet wasn’t very clear.”

“They are corpses,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “Dead bod­ies that have been be­witched to do a Dark wiz­ard’s bid­ding. In­feri have not been seen for a long time, how­ev­er, not since Volde­mort was last pow­er­ful… He killed enough peo­ple to make an army of them, of course. This is the place, Har­ry, just here…”

They were near­ing a small, neat stone house set in its own gar­den. Har­ry was too busy di­gest­ing the hor­ri­ble idea of In­feri to have much at­ten­tion left for any­thing else, but as they reached the front gate, Dum­ble­dore stopped dead and Har­ry walked in­to him.

“Oh dear. Oh dear, dear, dear.”

Har­ry fol­lowed his gaze up the care­ful­ly tend­ed front path and felt his heart sink. The front door was hang­ing off its hinges.

Dum­ble­dore glanced up and down the street. It seemed quite de­sert­ed.

“Wand out and fol­low me, Har­ry,” he said qui­et­ly.

He opened the gate and walked swift­ly and silent­ly up the gar­den path, Har­ry at his heels, then pushed the front door very slow­ly, his wand raised and at the ready.

“Lu­mos.”

Dum­ble­dore’s wand tip ig­nit­ed, cast­ing its light up a nar­row hall­way. To the left, an­oth­er door stood open. Hold­ing his il­lu­mi­nat­ed wand aloft, Dum­ble­dore walked in­to the sit­ting room with Har­ry right be­hind him.

A scene of to­tal dev­as­ta­tion met their eyes. A grand­fa­ther clock lay splin­tered at their feet, its face cracked, its pen­du­lum ly­ing a lit­tle far­ther away like a dropped sword. A pi­ano was on its side, its keys strewn across the floor. The wreck­age of a fall­en chan­de­li­er flit­tered near­by. Cush­ions lay de­flat­ed, feath­ers ooz­ing from slash­es in their sides; frag­ments of glass and chi­na lay like pow­der over ev­ery­thing. Dum­ble­dore raised his wand even high­er, so that its light was thrown up­on the walls, where some­thing dark­ly red and glu­ti­nous was spat­tered over the wall­pa­per. Har­ry’s small in­take of breath made Dum­ble­dore look around.

“Not pret­ty, is it?” he said heav­ily. “Yes, some­thing hor­ri­ble has hap­pened here.”

Dum­ble­dore moved care­ful­ly in­to the mid­dle of the room, scru­ti­niz­ing the wreck­age at his feet. Har­ry fol­lowed, gaz­ing around, half­scared of what he might see hid­den be­hind the wreck of the pi­ano or the over­turned so­fa, but there was no sign of a body.

“Maybe there was a fight and — and they dragged him off, Pro­fes­sor?” Har­ry sug­gest­ed, try­ing not to imag­ine how bad­ly wound­ed a man would have to be to leave those stains spat­tered halfway up the walls.

“I don’t think so,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, peer­ing be­hind an over­stuffed arm­chair ly­ing on its side.

“You mean he’s — ?”

“Still here some­where? Yes.”

And with­out warn­ing, Dum­ble­dore swooped, plung­ing the tip of his wand in­to the seat of the over­stuffed arm­chair, which yelled, “Ouch!”

“Good evening, Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore, straight­en­ing up again.

Har­rys jaw dropped. Where a split sec­ond be­fore there had been an arm­chair, there now crouched an enor­mous­ly fat, bald, old man who was mas­sag­ing his low­er bel­ly and squint­ing up at Dum­ble­dore with an ag­grieved and wa­tery eye.

“There was no need to stick the wand in that hard,” he said gruffly, clam­ber­ing to his feet. “It hurt.”

The wan­dlight sparkled on his shiny pate, his pro­mi­nent eyes, his enor­mous, sil­ver, wal­rus­like mus­tache, and the high­ly pol­ished but­tons on the ma­roon vel­vet jack­et he was wear­ing over a pair of lilac silk pa­ja­mas. The top of his head bare­ly reached Dum­ble­dore’s chin.

“What gave it away?” he grunt­ed as he stag­gered to his feet, still rub­bing his low­er bel­ly. He seemed re­mark­ably un­abashed for a man who had just been dis­cov­ered pre­tend­ing to be an arm­chair.

“My dear Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing amused, “if the Death Eaters re­al­ly had come to call, the Dark Mark would have been set over the house.”

The wiz­ard clapped a pudgy hand to his vast fore­head.

“The Dark Mark,” he mut­tered. “Knew there was some­thing… ah well. Wouldn’t have had time any­way, I’d on­ly just put the fin­ish­ing touch­es to my up­hol­stery when you en­tered the room.”

He heaved a great sigh that made the ends of his mus­tache flut­ter.

“Would you like my as­sis­tance clear­ing up?” asked Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly.

“Please,” said the oth­er.

They stood back to back, the tall thin wiz­ard and the short round one, and waved their wands in one iden­ti­cal sweep­ing mo­tion.

The fur­ni­ture flew back to its orig­in­al places; or­na­ments relormed in midair, feath­ers zoomed in­to their cush­ions; torn books re­paired them­selves as they land­ed up­on their shelves; oil lanterns soared on­to side ta­bles and reignit­ed; avast col­lec­tion of splin­tered sil­ver pic­ture frames flew glit­ter­ing across the room and alight­ed, whole and un­tar­nished, up­on a desk; rips, cracks, and holes healed ev­ery­where, and the walls wiped them­selves clean.

“What kind of blood was that, in­ci­den­tal­ly?” asked Dum­ble­dore loud­ly over the chim­ing of the new­ly un­smashed grand­fa­ther flock.

“On the walls? Drag­on,” shout­ed the wiz­ard called Ho­race, as, with a deaf­en­ing grind­ing and tin­kling, the chan­de­li­er screwed it­self back in­to the ceil­ing.

There was a fi­nal plunk from the pi­ano, and si­lence.

“Yes, drag­on,” re­peat­ed the wiz­ard con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly. “My last bot­tle, and prices are sky­high at the mo­ment. Still, it might be reusable.”

He stumped over to a small crys­tal bot­tle stand­ing on top of a side­board and held it up to the light, ex­am­in­ing the thick liq­uid with­in.

“Hmm. Bit dusty.”

He set the bot­tle back on the side­board and sighed. It was then that his gaze fell up­on Har­ry.

“Oho,” he said, his large round eyes fly­ing to Har­ry’s fore­head and the light­ning­shaped scar it bore. “Oho!”

“This,” said Dum­ble­dore, mov­ing for­ward to make the in­tro­duc­tion, “is Har­ry Pot­ter. Har­ry, this is an old Friend and col­league of mine, Ho­race Slughorn.”

Slughorn turned on Dum­ble­dore, his ex­pres­sion shrewd. “So that’s how you thought you’d per­suade me, is it? Well, the an­swer’s no, Al­bus.”

He pushed past Har­ry, his face turned res­olute­ly away with the air of a man try­ing to re­sist temp­ta­tion.

“I sup­pose we can have a drink, at least?” asked Dum­ble­dore. “For old time’s sake?”

Slughorn hes­itat­ed.

“All right then, one drink,” he said un­gra­cious­ly.

Dum­ble­dore smiled at Har­ry and di­rect­ed him to­ward a chair not un­like the one that Slughorn had so re­cent­ly im­per­son­at­ed, which stood right be­side the new­ly burn­ing fire and a bright­ly glow­ing oil lamp. Har­ry took the seat with the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Dum­ble­dore, for some rea­son, want­ed to keep him as vis­ible as pos­si­ble. Cer­tain­ly when Slughorn, who had been busy with de­can­ters and glass­es, turned to face the room again, his eyes fell im­me­di­ate­ly up­on Har­ry.

“Hmpf,” he said, look­ing away quick­ly as though fright­ened of hurt­ing his eyes. “Here —” He gave a drink to Dum­ble­dore, who had sat down with­out in­vi­ta­tion, thrust the tray at Har­ry, and then sank in­to the cush­ions of the re­paired so­fa and a dis­grun­tled si­lence. His legs were so short they did not touch the floor.

“Well, how have you been keep­ing, Ho­race?” Dum­ble­dore asked.

“Not so well,” said Slughorn at once. “Weak chest. Wheezy. Rheuma­tism too. Can’t move like I used to. Well, that’s to be ex­pect­ed. Old age. Fa­tigue.”

“And yet you must have moved fair­ly quick­ly to pre­pare such a wel­come for us at such short no­tice,” said Dum­ble­dore. “You can’t have had more than three min­utes’ warn­ing?”

Slughorn said, half ir­ri­ta­bly, half proud­ly, “Two. Didn’t hear my In­trud­er Charm go off, I was tak­ing a bath. Still,” he added stern­ly, seem­ing to pull him­self back to­geth­er again, “the fact re­mains that I’m an old man, Al­bus. A tired old man who’s earned the right to a qui­et life and a few crea­ture com­forts.”

He cer­tain­ly had those, thought Har­ry, look­ing around the room. It was stuffy and clut­tered, yet no­body could say it was un­com­fort­able; there were soft chairs and foot­stools, drinks and books, box­es of choco­lates and plump cush­ions. If Har­ry had not known who lived there, he would have guessed at a rich, fussy old la­dy.

“You’re not yet as old as I am, Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Well, maybe you ought to think about re­tire­ment your­self,” said Slughorn blunt­ly. His pale goose­ber­ry eyes had found Dum­ble­dore’s in­ju­red hand. “Re­ac­tions not what they were, I see.”

“You’re quite right,” said Dum­ble­dore serene­ly, shak­ing back his sleeve to re­veal the tips of those burned and black­ened ringers; the sight of them made the back of Har­ry’s neck prick­le un­pleas­ant­ly. “1 am un­doubt­ed­ly slow­er than I was. But on the oth­er hand…”

He shrugged and spread his hands wide, as though to say that age had its com­pen­sa­tions, and Har­ry no­ticed a ring on his un­in­ju­red hand that he had nev­er seen Dum­ble­dore wear be­fore: It was large, rather clum­si­ly made of what looked like gold, and was set with a heavy black stone that had cracked down the mid­dle. Slughorn’s eyes lin­gered for a mo­ment on the ring too, and Har­ry saw a tiny frown mo­men­tar­ily crease his wide fore­head.

“So, all these pre­cau­tions against in­trud­ers, Ho­race… are they for the Death Eaters’ ben­efit, or mine?” asked Dum­ble­dore.

“What would the Death Eaters want with a poor bro­kendown old buffer like me?” de­mand­ed Slughorn.

“I imag­ine that they would want you to turn your con­sid­er­able tal­ents to co­er­cion, tor­ture, and mur­der,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Are you re­al­ly telling me that they haven’t come re­cruit­ing yet?”

Slughorn eyed Dum­ble­dore bale­ful­ly for a mo­ment, then mut­tered, “I haven’t giv­en them the chance. I’ve been on the move for a year. Nev­er stay in one place more than a week. Move from Mug­gle house to Mug­gle house — the own­ers of this place are on hol­iday in the Ca­nary Is­lands — it’s been very pleas­ant, I’ll be sor­ry to leave. It’s quite easy once you know how, one sim­ple Freez­ing Charm on these ab­surd bur­glar alarms they use in­stead of Sneako­scopes and make sure the neigh­bors don’t spot you bring­ing in the pi­ano.”

“In­ge­nious,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But it sounds a rather tir­ing ex­is­tence for a bro­kendown old buffer in search of a qui­et life. Now, if you were to re­turn to Hog­warts —”

“If you’re go­ing to tell me my life would be more peace­ful at that pesti­len­tial school, you can save your breath, Al­bus! I might have been in hid­ing, but some fun­ny ru­mors have reached me since Do­lores Um­bridge left! If that’s how you treat teach­ers these days —”

“Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge ran afoul of our cen­taur herd,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think you, Ho­race, would have known bet­ter than to stride in­to the for­est and call a horde of an­gry cen­taurs ‘filthy half­breeds.’”

“That’s what she did, did she?” said Slughorn. “Id­iot­ic wom­an. Nev­er liked her.”

Har­ry chuck­led and both Dum­ble­dore and Slughorn looked round at him.

“Sor­ry,” Har­ry said hasti­ly. “It’s just — I didn’t like her ei­ther.”

Dum­ble­dore stood up rather sud­den­ly.

“Are you leav­ing?” asked Slughorn at once, look­ing hope­ful.

“No, I was won­der­ing whether I might use your bath­room,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Oh,” said Slughorn, clear­ly dis­ap­point­ed. “Sec­ond on the left down the hall.”

Dum­ble­dore strode from the room. Once the door had closed be­hind him, there was si­lence. Af­ter a few mo­ments, Slughorn got to his feet but seemed un­cer­tain what to do with him­self. He shot a furtive look at Har­ry, then crossed to the fire and turned his back on it, warm­ing his wide be­hind.

“Don’t think I don’t know why he’s brought you,” he said abrupt­ly.

Har­ry mere­ly looked at Slughorn. Slughorn’s wa­tery eyes slid over Har­ry’s scar, this time tak­ing in the rest of his face.

“You look very like your fa­ther.”

“Yeah, I’ve been told,” said Har­ry.

“Ex­cept for your eyes. You’ve got —-“

“My moth­er’s eyes, yeah.” Har­ry had heard it so of­ten he found it a bit wear­ing.

“Hmpf. Yes, well. You shouldn’t have fa­vorites as a teach­er, of course, but she was one of mine. Your moth­er,” Slughorn added, in an­swer to Har­rys ques­tion­ing look. “Lily Evans. One of the bright­est I ev­er taught. Vi­va­cious, you know. Charm­ing girl. I used to tell her she ought to have been in my House. Very cheeky an­swers I used to get back too.”

“Which was your House?”

“I was Head of Slytherin,” said Slughorn. “Oh, now,” he went on quick­ly, see­ing the ex­pres­sion on Har­ry’s face and wag­ging a stub­by ringer at him, “don’t go hold­ing that against me! You’ll be Gryffind­or like her, I sup­pose? Yes, it usu­al­ly goes in fam­ilies. Not al­ways, though. Ev­er heard of Sir­ius Black? You must have done — been in the pa­pers for the last cou­ple of years — died a few weeks ago —”

It was as though an in­vis­ible hand had twist­ed Har­ry’s in­testines and held them tight.

“Well, any­way, he was a big pal of your fa­ther’s at school. The whole Black fam­ily had been in my House, but Sir­ius end­ed up in Gryffind­or! Shame — he was a tal­ent­ed boy. I got his broth­er, Reg­ulus, when he came along, but I’d have liked the set.”

He sound­ed like an en­thu­si­as­tic col­lec­tor who had been out­bid at auc­tion. Ap­par­ent­ly lost in mem­ories, he gazed at the op­po­site wall, turn­ing idly on the spot to en­sure an even heat on his back­side.

“Your moth­er was Mug­gle­born, of course. Couldn’t be­lieve it when I found out. Thought she must have been pure­blood, she was so good.”

“One of my best friends is Mug­gle­born,” said Har­ry, “and she’s the best in our year.”

“Fun­ny how that some­times hap­pens, isn’t it?” said Slughorn.

“Not re­al­ly,” said Har­ry cold­ly.

Slughorn looked down at him in sur­prise. “You mustn’t think I’m prej­udiced!” he said. “No, no, no! Haven’t I just said your moth­er was one of my all­time fa­vorite stu­dents? And there was Dirk Cress­well in the year af­ter her too — now Head of the Gob­lin Li­ai­son Of­fice, of course — an­oth­er Mug­gle­born, a very gift­ed stu­dent, and still gives me ex­cel­lent in­side in­for­ma­tion on the go­in­gson at Gringotts!”

He bounced up and down a lit­tle, smil­ing in a self­sat­is­fied way, and point­ed at the many glit­ter­ing pho­to­graph frames on the dress­er, each peo­pled with tiny mov­ing oc­cu­pants.

“All exs­tu­dents, all signed. You’ll no­tice Barn­abas Cuffe, ed­itor of the Dai­ly Prophet, he’s al­ways in­ter­est­ed to hear my take on the day’s news. And Am­bro­sius Flume, of Hon­ey­dukes — a ham­per ev­ery birth­day, and all be­cause I was able to give him an in­tro­duc­tion to Ci­ceron Harkisss who gave him his first job! And at the back — you’ll see her if you just crane your neck — that’s Gwenog Jones, who of course cap­tains the Holy­head Harpies… Peo­ple are al­ways as­ton­ished to hear I’m on first­name terms with the Harpies, and free tick­ets when­ev­er I want them!”

This thought seemed to cheer him up enor­mous­ly.

“And all these peo­ple know where to find you, to send you stuff?” asked Har­ry, who could not help won­der­ing why the Death Eaters had not yet tracked down Slughorn if ham­pers of sweets, Quid­ditch tick­ets, and vis­itors crav­ing his ad­vice and opin­ions could find him.

The smile slid from Slughorn’s face as quick­ly as the blood from his walls.

“Of course not,” he said, look­ing down at Har­ry. “I have been out of touch with ev­ery­body for a year.”

Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that the words shocked Slughorn him­self; he looked quite un­set­tled for a mo­ment. Then he shrugged.

“Still… the pru­dent wiz­ard keeps his head down in such times. All very well for Dum­ble­dore to talk, but tak­ing up a post at Hog­warts just now would be tan­ta­mount to declar­ing my pub­lic al­le­gi­ance to the Or­der of the Phoenix! And while I’m sure they’re very ad­mirable and brave and all the rest of it, I don’t per­son­al­ly fan­cy the mor­tal­ity rate —”

“You don’t have to join the Or­der to teach at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, who could not quite keep a note of de­ri­sion out of his voice: It was hard to sym­pa­thize with Slughorn’s cos­set­ed ex­is­tence when he re­mem­bered Sir­ius, crouch­ing in a cave and liv­ing on rats. “Most of the teach­ers aren’t in it, and none of them has ev­er been killed — well, un­less you count Quir­rell, and he got what he de­served see­ing as he was work­ing with Volde­mort.”

Har­ry had been sure Slughorn would be one of those wiz­ards who could not bear to hear Volde­mort’s name spo­ken aloud, and was not dis­ap­point­ed: Slughorn gave a shud­der and a squawk of protest, which Har­ry ig­nored.

“I reck­on the staff are safer than most peo­ple while Dum­ble­dore’s head­mas­ter; he’s sup­posed to be the on­ly one Volde­mort ev­er feared, isn’t he?” Har­ry went on.

Slughorn gazed in­to space for a mo­ment or two: He seemed to be think­ing over Har­ry’s words.

“Well, yes, it is true that He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named has nev­er sought a fight with Dum­ble­dore,” he mut­tered grudg­ing­ly. “And I sup­pose one could ar­gue that as I have not joined the Death Kil­ters, He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named can hard­ly count me a friend… in which case, I might well be safer a lit­tle clos­er to Al­bus… I can­not pre­tend that Amelia Bones’s death did not shake me… If she, with all her Min­istry con­tacts and pro­tec­tion…”

Dum­ble­dore reen­tered the room and Slughorn jumped as though he had for­got­ten he was in the house.

“Oh, there you are, Al­bus,” he said. “You’ve been a very long lime. Up­set stom­ach?”

“No, I was mere­ly read­ing the Mug­gle mag­azines,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I do love knit­ting pat­terns. Well, Har­ry, we have tres­passed up­on Ho­race’s hos­pi­tal­ity quite long enough; I think it is time for us to leave.”

Not at all re­luc­tant to obey, Har­ry jumped to his feet. Slughorn sinned tak­en aback.

“You’re leav­ing?”

“Yes, in­deed. I think I know a lost cause when I see one.”

“Lost…?”

Slughorn seemed ag­itat­ed. He twid­dled his fat thumbs and fid­get­ed as he watched Dum­ble­dore fas­ten his trav­el­ing cloak, and Har­ry zip up his jack­et.

“Well, I’m sor­ry you don’t want the job, Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing his un­in­ju­red hand in a farewell salute. “Hog­warts would have been glad to see you back again. Our great­ly in­creased se­cu­ri­ty notwith­stand­ing, you will al­ways be wel­come to vis­it, should you wish to.”

“Yes… well… very gra­cious… as I say…”

“Good­bye, then.”

“Bye,” said Har­ry.

They were at the front door when there was a shout from be­hind them.

“All right, all right, I’ll do it!”

Dum­ble­dore turned to see Slughorn stand­ing breath­less in the door­way to the sit­ting room.

“You will come out of re­tire­ment?”

“Yes, yes,” said Slughorn im­pa­tient­ly. “I must be mad, but yes.”

“Won­der­ful,” said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing. “Then, Ho­race, we shall see you on the first of Septem­ber.”

“Yes, I dare­say you will,” grunt­ed Slughorn.

As they set off down the gar­den path, Slughorn’s voice float­ed af­ter them, “I’ll want a pay rise, Dum­ble­dore!”

Dum­ble­dore chuck­led. The gar­den gate swung shut be­hind them, and they set off back down the hill through the dark and the swirling mist.

“Well done, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“I didn’t do any­thing,” said Har­ry in sur­prise.

“Oh yes you did. You showed Ho­race ex­act­ly how much he stands to gain by re­turn­ing to Hog­warts. Did you like him?”

“Er…”

Har­ry wasn’t sure whether he liked Slughorn or not. He sup­posed he had been pleas­ant in his way, but he had al­so seemed vain and, what­ev­er he said to the con­trary, much too sur­prised that a Mug­gle­born should make a good witch.

“Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­liev­ing Har­ry of the re­spon­si­bil­ity to say any of this, “likes his com­fort. He al­so likes the com­pa­ny of the fa­mous, the suc­cess­ful, and the pow­er­ful. He en­joys the feel­ing that he in­flu­ences these peo­ple. He has nev­er want­ed to oc­cu­py the throne him­self; he prefers the back­seat — more room to spread out, you see. He used to hand­pick fa­vorites at Hog­warts, some­times for their am­bi­tion or their brains, some­times for their charm or their tal­ent, and he had an un­can­ny knack for choos­ing those who would go on to be­come out­stand­ing in their var­ious fields. Ho­race formed a kind of club of his fa­vorites with him­self at the cen­ter, mak­ing in­tro­duc­tions, forg­ing use­ful con­tacts be­tween mem­bers, and al­ways reap­ing some kind of ben­efit in re­turn, whether a free box of his fa­vorite crys­tal­lized pineap­ple or the chance to rec­om­mend the next ju­nior mem­ber of the Gob­lin li­ai­son Of­fice.”

Har­ry had a sud­den and vivid men­tal im­age of a great swollen spi­der, spin­ning a web around it, twitch­ing a thread here and there to bring its large and juicy flies a lit­tle clos­er.

“I tell you all this,” Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, “not to turn you against Ho­race — or, as we must now call him, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn — but to put you on your guard. He will un­doubt­ed­ly try to col­lect you, Har­ry. You would be the jew­el of his col­lec­tion; ‘the Boy Who Lived’… or, as they call you these days, ‘the Cho­sen One.’”

At these words, a chill that had noth­ing to do with the sur­round­ing mist stole over Har­ry. He was re­mind­ed of words he had heard a few weeks ago, words that had a hor­ri­ble and par­tic­ular mean­ing to him: Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives…

Dum­ble­dore had stopped walk­ing, lev­el with the church they had passed ear­li­er.

“This will do, Har­ry. If you will grasp my arm.”

Braced this time, Har­ry was ready for the Ap­pari­tion, but still found it un­pleas­ant. When the pres­sure dis­ap­peared and he found him­self able to breathe again, he was stand­ing in a coun­try lane be­side Dum­ble­dore and look­ing ahead to the crooked sil­hou­ette of his sec­ond fa­vorite build­ing in the world: the Bur­row. In spite of the feel­ing of dread that had just swept through him, his spir­its could not help but lift at the sight of it. Ron was in there… and so was Mrs. Weasley, who could cook bet­ter than any­one he knew…

“If you don’t mind, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, as they passed through the gate, “I’d like a few words with you be­fore we part. In pri­vate. Per­haps in here?”

Dum­ble­dore point­ed to­ward a run­down stone out­house where the Weasleys kept their broom­sticks. A lit­tle puz­zled, Har­ry fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore through the creak­ing door in­to a space a lit­tle small­er than the av­er­age cup­board. Dum­ble­dore il­lu­mi­nat­ed the tip of his wand, so that it glowed like a torch, and smiled down at Har­ry.

“I hope you will for­give me for men­tion­ing it, Har­ry, but I am pleased and a lit­tle proud at how well you seem to be cop­ing af­ter ev­ery­thing that hap­pened at the Min­istry. Per­mit me to say that I think Sir­ius would have been proud of you.”

Har­ry sw­al­lowed; his voice seemed to have de­sert­ed him. He did not think he could stand to dis­cuss Sir­ius; it had been painful enough to hear Un­cle Ver­non say “His god­fa­ther’s dead?” and even worse to hear Sir­iuss name thrown out ca­su­al­ly by Slughorn.

“It was cru­el,” said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly, “that you and Sir­ius had such a short time to­geth­er. A bru­tal end­ing to what should have been a long and hap­py re­la­tion­ship.”

Har­ry nod­ded, his eyes fixed res­olute­ly on the spi­der now climb­ing Dum­ble­dore’s hat. He could tell that Dum­ble­dore un­der­stood, that he might even sus­pect that un­til his let­ter ar­rived, Har­ry had spent near­ly all his time at the Durs­leys’ ly­ing on his bed, re­fus­ing meals, and star­ing at the mist­ed win­dow, full of the chill emp­ti­ness i hat he had come to as­so­ciate with de­men­tors.

“It’s just hard,” Har­ry said fi­nal­ly, in a low voice, “to re­al­ize he won’t write to me again.”

His eyes burned sud­den­ly and he blinked. He felt stupid for ad­mit­ting it, but the fact that he had had some­one out­side Hog­warts who cared what hap­pened to him, al­most like a par­ent, had been one of the best things about dis­cov­er­ing his god­fa­ther… and now the post owls would nev­er bring him that com­fort again…

“Sir­ius rep­re­sent­ed much to you that you had nev­er known be­fore,” said Dum­ble­dore gen­tly. “Nat­ural­ly, the loss is dev­as­tat­ing…

“But while I was at the Durs­leys’…” in­ter­rupt­ed Har­ry, his voice grow­ing stronger, “I re­al­ized I cant shut my­self away or — or crack up. Sir­ius wouldn’t have want­ed that, would he? And any­way, life’s too short… Look at Madam Bones, look at Em­me­line Vance… It could be me next, couldn’t it? But if it is,” he said fierce­ly, now look­ing straight in­to Dum­ble­dore’s blue eyes gleam­ing in the wan­dlight, “I’ll make sure I take as many Death Eaters with me as I can, and Volde­mort too if I can man­age it.”

“Spo­ken both like your moth­er and fa­ther’s son and Sir­ius’s true god­son!” said Dum­ble­dore, with an ap­prov­ing pat on Har­ry’s back. “I take my hat off to you — or I would, if I were not afraid of show­er­ing you in spi­ders.

“And now, Har­ry, on a close­ly re­lat­ed sub­ject… I gath­er that you have been tak­ing the Dai­ly Prophet over the last two weeks?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, and his heart beat a lit­tle faster.

“Then you will have seen that there have been not so much leaks as floods con­cern­ing your ad­ven­ture in the Hall of Prophe­cy?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry again. “And now ev­ery­one knows that I’m the one —

“No, they do not,” in­ter­rupt­ed Dum­ble­dore. “There are on­ly two peo­ple in the whole world who know the full con­tents of the prophe­cy made about you and Lord Volde­mort, and they are both stand­ing in this smelly, spi­dery broom shed. It is true, how­ev­er, that many have guessed, cor­rect­ly, that Volde­mort sent his Death Eaters to steal a prophe­cy, and that the prophe­cy con­cerned you.

“Now, I think I am cor­rect in say­ing that you have not told any­body that you know what the prophe­cy said?”

“No,” said Har­ry.

“A wise de­ci­sion, on the whole,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Al­though I think you ought to re­lax it in fa­vor of your friends, Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger. Yes,” he con­tin­ued, when Har­ry looked star­tled, “I think they ought to know. You do them a dis­ser­vice by not con­fid­ing some­thing this im­por­tant to them.”

“I didn’t want —”

“— to wor­ry or fright­en them?” said Dum­ble­dore, sur­vey­ing Har­ry over the top of his half­moon spec­ta­cles. “Or per­haps, to con­fess that you your­self are wor­ried and fright­ened? You need your friends, Har­ry. As you so right­ly said, Sir­ius would not have want­ed you to shut your­self away.”

Har­ry said noth­ing, but Dum­ble­dore did not seem to re­quire an an­swer. He con­tin­ued, “On a dif­fer­ent, though re­lat­ed, sub­ject, it is my wish that you take pri­vate lessons with me this year.”

“Pri­vate — with you?” said Har­ry, sur­prised out of his pre­oc­cu­pied si­lence.

“Yes. I think it is time that I took a greater hand in your ed­uca­tion.”

What will you be teach­ing me, sir?”

“Oh, a lit­tle of this, a lit­tle of that,” said Dum­ble­dore air­ily.

Har­ry wait­ed hope­ful­ly, but Dum­ble­dore did not elab­orate, so ho asked some­thing else that had been both­er­ing him slight­ly.

“If I’m hav­ing lessons with you, I won’t have to do Oc­clu­men­cy lessons with Snape, will I?”

”Pro­fes­sor Snape, Har­ry — and no, you will not.”

“Good,” said Har­ry in re­lief, “be­cause they were a —”

He stopped, care­ful not to say what he re­al­ly thought.

“I think the word ‘fi­as­co’ would be a good one here,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding.

Har­ry laughed.

“Well, that means I won’t see much of Pro­fes­sor Snape from now on,” he said, “be­cause he won’t let me car­ry on Po­tions un­less I get ‘Out­stand­ing’ in my OWL., which I know I haven’t.”

“Don’t count your owls be­fore they are de­liv­ered,” said Dum­ble­dore grave­ly. “Which, now I think of it, ought to be some time lat­er to­day. Now, two more things, Har­ry, be­fore we part.

“First­ly, I wish you to keep your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak with you at all i imes from this mo­ment on­ward. Even with­in Hog­warts it­self. Just in case, you un­der­stand me?”

Har­ry nod­ded.

“And last­ly, while you stay here, the Bur­row has been giv­en the high­est se­cu­ri­ty the Min­istry of Mag­ic can pro­vide. These mea­sures have caused a cer­tain amount of in­con­ve­nience to Arthur and Mol­ly — all their post, for in­stance, is be­ing searched at the Min­istry be­fore be­ing sent on. They do not mind in the slight­est, for their on­ly con­cern is your safe­ty. How­ev­er, it would be poor re­pay­ment if you risked your neck while stay­ing with them.”

“I un­der­stand,” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“Very well, then,” said Dum­ble­dore, push­ing open the broom shed door and step­ping out in­to the yard. “I see a light in the kitchen. Let us not de­prive Mol­ly any longer of the chance to de­plore how thin you are.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 5: An Excess Of Phlegm


Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the back door of the Bur­row, which was sur­round­ed by the fa­mil­iar lit­ter of old Welling­ton boots and rusty caul­drons; Har­ry could hear the soft cluck­ing of sleepy chick­ens com­ing from a dis­tant shed. Dum­ble­dore knocked three times and Har­ry saw sud­den move­ment be­hind the kitchen win­dow.

“Who’s there?” said a ner­vous voice he rec­og­nized as Mrs. Weasley’s. “De­clare your­self!”

“It is I, Dum­ble­dore, bring­ing Har­ry.”

The door opened at once. There stood Mrs. Weasley, short, plump, and wear­ing an old green dress­ing gown.

“Har­ry, dear! Gra­cious, Al­bus, you gave me a fright, you said not to ex­pect you be­fore morn­ing!”

“We were lucky,” said Dum­ble­dore, ush­er­ing Har­ry over the thresh­old. “Slughorn proved much more per­suad­able than I had ex­pect­ed. Har­ry’s do­ing, of course. Ah, hel­lo, Nympha­do­ra!”

Har­ry looked around and saw that Mrs. Weasley was not alone, de­spite the late­ness of the hour. A young witch with a pale, heartshaped face and mousy brown hair was sit­ting at the ta­ble clutch­ing a large mug be­tween her hands.

“Hel­lo, Pro­fes­sor,” she said. ” Wotch­er, Har­ry.”

“Hi, Tonks.”

Har­ry thought she looked drawn, even ill, and there was some­thing forced in her smile. Cer­tain­ly her ap­pear­an­ce was less col­or­ful than usu­al with­out her cus­tom­ary shade of bub­blegumpink hair.

“I’d bet­ter be off,” she said quick­ly, stand­ing up and pulling her cloak around her shoul­ders. “Thanks for the tea and sym­pa­thy, Mol­ly”

“Please don’t leave on my ac­count,” said Dum­ble­dore cour­te­ous­ly, “I can­not stay, I have ur­gent mat­ters to dis­cuss with Ru­fus Scrim­geour.”

“No, no, I need to get go­ing,” said Tonks, not meet­ing Dum­ble­dore’s eyes. “‘Night…”

“Dear, why not come to din­ner at the week­end, Re­mus and Mad­Eye are com­ing… ?”

“No, re­al­ly, Mol­ly… thanks any­way… Good night, ev­ery­one.

Tonks hur­ried past Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry in­to the yard; a few paces be­yond the doorstep, she turned on the spot and van­ished in­to thin air. Har­ry no­ticed that Mrs. Weasley looked trou­bled.

“Well, I shall see you at Hog­warts, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Take care of your­self. Mol­ly, your ser­vant.”

He made Mrs. Weasley a bow and fol­lowed Tonks, van­ish­ing at pre­cise­ly the same spot. Mrs. Weasley closed the door on the emp­ty yard and then steered Har­ry by the shoul­ders in­to the full glow of the lantern on the ta­ble to ex­am­ine his ap­pear­an­ce.

“You’re like Ron,” she sighed, look­ing him up and down. “Both of you look as though you’ve had Stretch­ing jinx­es put on you. I swear Ron’s grown four inch­es since I last bought him school robes. Are you hun­gry, Har­ry?”

“Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry, sud­den­ly re­al­iz­ing just how hun­gry he was,

“Sit down, dear, I’ll knock some­thing up.”

As Har­ry sat down, a fur­ry gin­ger cat with a squashed face lumped on­to his knees and set­tled there, purring.

“So Hermione’s here?” he asked hap­pi­ly as he tick­led Crook­shanks be­hind the ears.

“Oh yes, she ar­rived the day be­fore yes­ter­day,” said Mrs. Weasley, rap­ping a large iron pot with her wand. It bounced on­to the stove with a loud clang and be­gan to bub­ble at once. “Ev­ery­one’s in bed, of course, we didn’t ex­pect you for hours. Here you are…”

She tapped the pot again; it rose in­to the air, flew to­ward Har­ry, and tipped over; Mrs. Weasley slid a bowl near­ly be­neath it just in lime to catch the stream of thick, steam­ing onion soup.

“Bread, dear?”

“Thanks, Mrs. Weasley.”

She waved her wand over her shoul­der; a loaf of bread and a knife soared grace­ful­ly on­to the ta­ble; as the loaf sliced it­self and the soup pot dropped back on­to the stove, Mrs. Weasley sat down op­po­site him.

“So you per­suad­ed Ho­race Slughorn to take the job?”

Har­ry nod­ded, his mouth so full of hot soup that he could not speak.

“He taught Arthur and me,” said Mrs. Weasley. “He was at Hog­warts for ages, start­ed around the same time as Dum­ble­dore, I think. Did you like him?”

His mouth now full of bread, Har­ry shrugged and gave a non­com­mit­tal jerk of the head.

“I know what you mean,” said Mrs. Weasley, nod­ding wise­ly. “Of course he can be charm­ing when he wants to be, but Arthur’s nev­er liked him much. The Min­istry’s lit­tered with Slughorn’s old fa­vorites, he was al­ways good at giv­ing leg ups, but he nev­er had much time for Arthur… didn’t seem to think he was enough of a high­fli­er. Well, that just shows you, even Slughorn makes mis­takes. I don’t know whether Ron’s told you in any of his let­ters… it’s on­ly just hap­pened… but Arthur’s been pro­mot­ed!”

It could not have been clear­er that Mrs. Weasley had been burst­ing to say this.

Har­ry sw­al­lowed a large amount of very hot soup and thought he could feel his throat blis­ter­ing. “That’s great!” he gasped.

“You are sweet,” beamed Mrs. Weasley, pos­si­bly tak­ing his wa­ter­ing eyes for emo­tion at the news. “Yes, Ru­fus Scrim­geour has set up sev­er­al new of­fices in re­sponse to the present sit­ua­tion, and Arthur’s head­ing the Of­fice for the De­tec­tion and Con­fis­ca­tion of Coun­ter­feit De­fen­sive Spells and Pro­tec­tive Ob­jects. It’s a big job, he’s got ten peo­ple re­port­ing to him now!”

“What ex­act­ly?”

“Well, you see, in all the pan­ic about YouKnowWho, odd things have been crop­ping up for sale ev­ery­where, things that are sup­posed to guard against YouKnowWho and the Death Eaters. You can imag­ine the kind of thing… so­called pro­tec­tive po­tions that are re­al­ly gravy with a bit of bubo­tu­ber pus added, or in­struc­tions for de­fen­sive jinx­es that ac­tu­al­ly make your ears fall off… Well, in the main the per­pe­tra­tors are just peo­ple like Mundun­gus Hote­li­er, who’ve nev­er done an hon­est day’s work in their lives and are tak­ing ad­van­tage of how fright­ened ev­ery­body is, but ev­ery now and then some­thing re­al­ly nasty turns up. The oth­er day Arthur con­fis­cat­ed a box of cursed Sneako­scopes that were al­most cer­tain­ly plant­ed by a Death Eater. So you see, it’s a very im­por­tant job, and I tell him it’s just sil­ly to miss deal­ing with spark plugs and toast­ers and all the rest of that Mug­gle rub­bish.” Mrs. Weasley end­ed her speech with a stern look, as if it had been Har­ry sug­gest­ing that it was nat­ural to miss spark plugs.

“Is Mr. Weasley still at work?” Har­ry asked.

“Yes, he is. As a mat­ter of fact, he’s a tiny bit late… He said he’d be back around mid­night…”

She turned to look at a large clock that was perched awk­ward­ly on top of a pile of sheets in the wash­ing bas­ket at the end of the ta­ble. Har­ry rec­og­nized it at once: It had nine hands, each in­scribed with the name of a fam­ily mem­ber, and usu­al­ly hung on i he Weasleys’ sit­ting room wall, though its cur­rent po­si­tion sug­gest­ed that Mrs. Weasley had tak­en to car­ry­ing it around the house with her. Ev­ery sin­gle one of its nine hands was now point­ing at “mor­tal per­il.”

“It’s been like that for a while now,” said Mrs. Weasley, in an un­con­vinc­ing­ly ca­su­al voice, “ev­er since YouKnowWho came back in­to the open. I sup­pose ev­ery­body’s in mor­tal dan­ger now… I don’t think it can be just our fam­ily… but I don’t know any­one else who’s got a clock like this, so I can’t check. Oh!”

With a sud­den ex­cla­ma­tion she point­ed at the clock’s face. Mr. Weasley’s hand had switched to “trav­el­ing.”

“He’s com­ing!”

And sure enough, a mo­ment lat­er there was a knock on the back door. Mrs. Weasley jumped up and hur­ried to it; with one hand on the door­knob and her face pressed against the wood she called soft­ly, “Arthur, is that you?”

“Yes,” came Mr. Weasley’s weary voice. “But I would say that even if I were a Death Eater, dear. Ask the ques­tion!”

“Oh, hon­est­ly…”

“Mol­ly!”

“All right, all right… What is your dear­est am­bi­tion?”

“To find out how air­planes stay up.”

Mrs. Weasley nod­ded and turned the door­knob, but ap­par­ent­ly Mr. Weasley was hold­ing tight to it on the oth­er side, be­cause the door re­mained firm­ly shut.

“Mol­ly! I’ve got to ask you your ques­tion first!”

“Arthur, re­al­ly, this is just sil­ly…”

“What do you like me to call you when we’re alone to­geth­er?”

Even by the dim light of the lantern Har­ry could tell that Mrs. Weasley had turned bright red; he him­self felt sud­den­ly warm around the ears and neck, and hasti­ly gulped soup, clat­ter­ing his spoon as loud­ly as he could against the bowl.

“Mol­ly­wob­bles,” whis­pered a mor­ti­fied Mrs. Weasley in­to the crack at the edge of the door.

“Cor­rect,” said Mr. Weasley. “Now you can let me in.”

Mrs. Weasley opened the door to re­veal her hus­band, a thin, bald­ing, red­haired wiz­ard wear­ing horn­rimmed spec­ta­cles and a long and dusty trav­el­ing cloak.

“I still don’t see why we have to go through that ev­ery time you come home,” said Mrs. Weasley, still pink in the face as she helped her hus­band out of his cloak. “I mean, a Death Eater might have forced the an­swer out of you be­fore im­per­son­at­ing you!”

“I know, dear, but it’s Min­istry pro­ce­dure, and I have to set an ex­am­ple. Some­thing smells good… onion soup?”

Mr. Weasley turned hope­ful­ly in the di­rec­tion of the ta­ble.

“Har­ry! We didn’t ex­pect you un­til morn­ing!”

They shook hands, and Mr. Weasley dropped in­to the chair be­side Har­ry as Mrs. Weasley set a bowl of soup in front of him too.

“Thanks, Mol­ly. It’s been a tough night. Some id­iot’s start­ed sell­ing Meta­mor­phMedals. Just sling them around your neck and you’ll be able to change your ap­pear­an­ce at will. A hun­dred thou­sand dis­guis­es, all for ten Galleons!”

“And what re­al­ly hap­pens when you put them on?”

“Most­ly you just turn a fair­ly un­pleas­ant or­ange col­or, but a cou­ple of peo­ple have al­so sprout­ed ten­ta­cle like warts all over their bod­ies. As if St. Mun­go’s didn’t have enough to do al­ready!”

“It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George would find fun­ny,” said Mrs. Weasley hes­itant­ly. “Are you sure… ?”

“Of course I am!” said Mr. Weasley. “The boys wouldn’t do any­thing like that now, not when peo­ple are des­per­ate for pro­tec­tion!”

“So is that why you’re late, Meta­mor­phMedals?”

“No, we got wind of a nasty back­fir­ing jinx down in Ele­phant and Cas­tle, but luck­ily the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad had sort­ed it out by the time we got there…”

Har­ry sti­fled a yawn be­hind his hand.

“Bed,” said an un­de­ceived Mrs. Weasley at once. “I’ve got Fred and George’s room all ready for you, you’ll have it to your­self.”

“Why, where are they?”

“Oh, they’re in Di­agon Al­ley, sleep­ing in the lit­tle flat over their joke shop as they’re so busy,” said Mrs. Weasley. “I must say, I didn’t ap­prove at first, but they do seem to have a bit of a flair for busi­ness! Come on, dear, your trunks al­ready up there.”

“‘Night, Mr. Weasley,” said Har­ry, push­ing back his chair. Crook­shanks leapt light­ly from his lap and slunk out of the room.

“G’night, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley.

Har­ry saw Mrs. Weasley glance at the clock in the wash­ing bas­ket as they left the kitchen. All the hands were once again at “mor­tal per­il.”

Fred and George’s bed­room was on the sec­ond floor. Mrs. Weasley point­ed her wand at a lamp on the bed­side ta­ble and it ig­nit­ed at once, bathing the room in a pleas­ant gold­en glow. Though a large vase of flow­ers had been placed on a desk in front of the small win­dow, their per­fume could not dis­guise the lin­ger­ing smell of what Har­ry thought was gun­pow­der. A con­sid­er­able amount of floor space was de­vot­ed to a vast num­ber of un­marked, sealed card­board box­es, amongst which stood Har­ry’s school trunk. The room looked as though it was be­ing used as a tem­po­rary ware­house.

Hed­wig hoot­ed hap­pi­ly at Har­ry from her perch on top of a large wardrobe, then took off through the win­dow; Har­ry knew she had been wait­ing to see him be­fore go­ing hunt­ing. Har­ry bade Mrs. Weasley good night, put on pa­ja­mas, and got in­to one of the beds. There was some­thing hard in­side the pil­low­case. He groped in­side it and pulled out a sticky pur­ple­an­dor­ange sweet, which he rec­og­nized as a Puk­ing Pastille. Smil­ing to him­self, he rolled over and was in­stant­ly asleep.

Sec­onds lat­er, or so it seemed to Har­ry, he was awak­ened by what sound­ed like can­non fire as the door burst open. Sit­ting bolt up­right, he heard the rasp of the cur­tains be­ing pulled back: The daz­zling sun­light seemed to poke him hard in both eyes. Shield­ing them with one hand, he groped hope­less­ly for his glass­es with the oth­er.

“Wuz­zgoinon?”

“We didn’t know you were here al­ready!” said a loud and ex­cit­ed voice, and he re­ceived a sharp blow to the top of the head.

“Ron, don’t hit him!” said a girl’s voice re­proach­ful­ly.

Har­ry’s hand found his glass­es and he shoved them on, though I he light was so bright he could hard­ly see any­way. A long, loom­ing shad­ow quiv­ered in front of him for a mo­ment; he blinked and Ron Weasley came in­to fo­cus, grin­ning down at him.

“All right?”

“Nev­er been bet­ter,” said Har­ry, rub­bing the top of his head and slump­ing back on­to his pil­lows. “You?”

“Not bad,” said Ron, pulling over a card­board box and sit­ting on it. “When did you get here? Mum’s on­ly just told us!”

“About one o’clock this morn­ing.”

“Were the Mug­gles all right? Did they treat you okay?”

“Same as usu­al,” said Har­ry, as Hermione perched her­self on the edge of his bed, “they didn’t talk to me much, but I like it bet­ter that way. How’re you, Hermione?”

“Oh, I’m fine,” said Hermione, who was scru­ti­niz­ing Har­ry as though he was sick­en­ing for some­thing. He thought he knew what was be­hind this, and as he had no wish to dis­cuss Sir­ius’s death or any oth­er mis­er­able sub­ject at the mo­ment, he said, “What’s the time? Have I missed break­fast?”

“Don’t wor­ry about that, Mum’s bring­ing you up a tray; she reck­ons you look un­der­fed,” said Ron, rolling his eyes. “So, what’s been go­ing on?”

“Noth­ing much, I’ve just been stuck at my aunt and un­cle’s, haven’t I?”

“Come off it!” said Ron. “You’ve been off with Dum­ble­dore!”

“It wasn’t that ex­cit­ing. He just want­ed me to help him per­suade this old teach­er to come out of re­tire­ment. His name’s Ho­race Slughorn.”

“Oh,” said Ron, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed. “We thought…”

Hermione flashed a warn­ing look at Ron, and Ron changed tack at top speed.

“…we thought it’d be some­thing like that.”

“You did?” said Har­ry, amused.

“Yeah… yeah, now Um­bridge has left, ob­vi­ous­ly we need a new De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er, don’t we? So, er, what’s he like?”

“He looks a bit like a wal­rus, and he used to be Head of Slytherin,” said Har­ry. “Some­thing wrong, Hermione?”

She was watch­ing him as though ex­pect­ing strange symp­toms to man­ifest them­selves at any mo­ment. She re­ar­ranged her fea­tures hasti­ly in an un­con­vinc­ing smile.

“No, of course not! So, um, did Slughorn seem like he’ll be a good teach­er?”

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry. “He can’t be worse than Um­bridge, can he?”

“I know some­one who’s worse than Um­bridge,” said a voice from the door­way. Ron’s younger sis­ter slouched in­to the room, look­ing ir­ri­ta­ble. “Hi, Har­ry.”

“What’s up with you?” Ron asked.

“It’s her,” said Gin­ny, plonk­ing her­self down on Har­ry’s bed. “She’s driv­ing me mad.”

“What’s she done now?” asked Hermione sym­pa­thet­ical­ly.

“It’s the way she talks to me… you’d think I was about three!”

“I know,” said Hermione, drop­ping her voice. “She’s so full of her­self.”

Har­ry was as­ton­ished to hear Hermione talk­ing about Mrs. Weasley like this and could not blame Ron for say­ing an­gri­ly, “Can’t you two lay off her for five sec­onds?”

“Oh, that’s right, de­fend her,” snapped Gin­ny. “We all know you can’t get enough of her.”

This seemed an odd com­ment to make about Ron’s moth­er. Start­ing to feel that he was miss­ing some­thing, Har­ry said, “Who are you… ?”

But his ques­tion was an­swered be­fore he could fin­ish it. The bed­room door flew open again, and Har­ry in­stinc­tive­ly yanked the bed­cov­ers up to his chin so hard that Hermione and Gin­ny slid off the bed on­to the floor.

A young wom­an was stand­ing in the door­way, a wom­an of such breath­tak­ing beau­ty that the room seemed to have be­come strange­ly air­less. She was tall and wil­lowy with long blonde hair and ap­peared to em­anate a faint, sil­very glow. To com­plete this vi­sion of per­fec­tion, she was car­ry­ing a heav­ily laden break­fast tray.

“‘Ar­ry,” she said in a throaty voice. “Eet ‘as been too long!”

As she swept over the thresh­old to­ward him, Mrs. Weasley was re­vealed, bob­bing along in her wake, look­ing rather cross.

“There was no need to bring up the tray, I was just about to do it my­self!”

“Eet was no trou­ble,” said Fleur Dela­cour, set­ting the tray across Har­ry’s knees and then swoop­ing to kiss him on each cheek: He felt the places where her mouth had touched him burn. “I ‘ave been long­ing to see ‘im. You re­mem­ber my seester, Gabrielle? She nev­er stops talk­ing about ‘Ar­ry Pot­ter. She will be de­light­ed to see you again.”

“Oh… is she here too?” Har­ry croaked.

“No, no, sil­ly boy,” said Fleur with a tin­kling laugh, “I mean next sum­mer, when we… but do you not know?”

Her great blue eyes widened and she looked re­proach­ful­ly at Mrs. Weasley, who said, “We hadn’t got around to telling him yet.”

Fleur turned back to Har­ry, swing­ing her sil­very sheet of hair so that it whipped Mrs. Weasley across the face.

“Bill and I are go­ing to be mar­ried!”

“Oh,” said Har­ry blankly. He could not help not­ic­ing how Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, and Gin­ny were all de­ter­mined­ly avoid­ing one an­oth­er’s gaze. “Wow. Er… con­grat­ula­tions!”

She swooped down up­on him and kissed him again.

“Bill is very busy at ze mo­ment, work­ing very ‘ard, and I on­ly work part­time at Gringotts for my Eenglish, so he brought me ‘ere for a few days to get to know ‘is fam­ily prop­er­ly. I was so pleased to ‘ear you would be com­ing… zere isn’t much to do ‘ere, un­less you like cook­ing and chick­ens! Well… en­joy your break­fast, ‘Ar­ry!”

With these words she turned grace­ful­ly and seemed to float out of the room, clos­ing the door qui­et­ly be­hind her.

Mrs. Weasley made a noise that sound­ed like, “tchah!”

“Mum hates her,” said Gin­ny qui­et­ly.

“I do not hate her!” said Mrs. Weasley in a cross whis­per. “I just think they’ve hur­ried in­to this en­gage­ment, that’s all!”

“They’ve known each oth­er a year,” said Ron, who looked odd­ly grog­gy and was star­ing at the closed door.

“Well, that’s not very long! I know why it’s hap­pened, of course. Its all this un­cer­tain­ty with YouKnowWho com­ing back, peo­ple think they might be dead to­mor­row, so they’re rush­ing all sorts of de­ci­sions they’d nor­mal­ly take time over. It was the same last time he was pow­er­ful, peo­ple el­op­ing left, right, and cen­ter…”

“In­clud­ing you and Dad,” said Gin­ny sly­ly.

“Yes, well, your fa­ther and I were made for each oth­er, what was the point in wait­ing?” said Mrs. Weasley. “Where­as Bill and Fleur… well… what have they re­al­ly got in com­mon? He’s a hard­work­ing, down­toearth sort of per­son, where­as she’s…”

“A cow,” said Gin­ny, nod­ding. “But Bill’s not that down­toearth. He’s a Curse­Break­er, isn’t he, he likes a bit of ad­ven­ture, a bit of glam­our… I ex­pect that’s why he’s gone for Phlegm.”

“Stop call­ing her that, Gin­ny,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Har­ry and Hermione laughed. “Well, I’d bet­ter get on… Eat your eggs while they’re warm, Har­ry.”

Look­ing care­worn, she left the room. Ron still seemed slight­ly punch­drunk; he was shak­ing his head ex­per­imen­tal­ly like a dog try­ing to rid its ears of wa­ter.

“Don’t you get used to her if she’s stay­ing in the same house?” Har­ry asked.

“Well, you do,” said Ron, “but if she jumps out at you un­ex­pect­ed­ly, like then…”

“It’s pa­thet­ic,” said Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly, strid­ing away from Ron as far as she could go and turn­ing to face him with her arms fold­ed once she had reached the wall.

“You don’t re­al­ly want her around for­ev­er?” Gin­ny asked Ron in­cred­ulous­ly. When he mere­ly shrugged, she said, “Well, Mum’s go­ing to put a stop to it if she can, I bet you any­thing.”

“How’s she go­ing to man­age that?” asked Har­ry.

“She keeps try­ing to get Tonks round for din­ner. I think she’s hop­ing Bill will fall for Tonks in­stead. I hope he does, I’d much rather have her in the fam­ily.”

“Yeah, that’ll work,” said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “Lis­ten, no bloke in his right mind’s go­ing to fan­cy Tonks when Fleur’s around. I mean, Tonks is okay­look­ing when she isn’t do­ing stupid things to her hair and her nose, but…”

“She’s a damn sight nicer than Phlegm? said Gin­ny.

“And she’s more in­tel­li­gent, she’s an Au­ror!” said Hermione from the cor­ner.

“Fleur’s not stupid, she was good enough to en­ter the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment,” said Har­ry.

“Not you as well!” said Hermione bit­ter­ly.

“I sup­pose you like the way Phlegm says ‘ ‘Any,’ do you?” asked Gin­ny scorn­ful­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry, wish­ing he hadn’t spo­ken, “I was just say­ing, Phlegm… I mean, Fleur…”

“I’d much rather have Tonks in the fam­ily,” said Gin­ny. “At least she’s a laugh.”

“She hasn’t been much of a laugh late­ly,” said Ron. “Ev­ery time I’ve seen her she’s looked more like Moan­ing Myr­tle.”

“That’s not fair,” snapped Hermione. “She still hasn’t got over what hap­pened… you know… I mean, he was her cousin!”

Har­ry’s heart sank. They had ar­rived at Sir­ius. He picked up a fork and be­gan shov­el­ing scram­bled eggs in­to his mouth, hop­ing to de­flect any in­vi­ta­tion to join in this part of the con­ver­sa­tion.

“Tonks and Sir­ius bare­ly knew each oth­er!” said Ron. “Sir­ius was in Azk­aban half her life and be­fore that their fam­ilies nev­er met…”

“That’s not the point,” said Hermione. “She thinks it was her lim­it he died!”

“How does she work that one out?” asked Har­ry, in spite of him­self.

“Well, she was fight­ing Bel­la­trix Lestrange, wasn’t she? I think she feels that if on­ly she had fin­ished her off, Bel­la­trix couldn’t have killed Sir­ius.”

“That’s stupid,” said Ron.

“It’s sur­vivor’s guilt,” said Hermione. “I know Lupin’s tried to talk her round, but she’s still re­al­ly down. She’s ac­tu­al­ly hav­ing trou­ble with her Meta­mor­phos­ing!”

“With her…?”

“She can’t change her ap­pear­an­ce like she used to,” ex­plained Hermione. “I think her pow­ers must have been af­fect­ed by shock, or some­thing.”

“I didn’t know that could hap­pen,” said Har­ry.

“Nor did I,” said Hermione, “but I sup­pose if you’re re­al­ly de­pressed…”

The door opened again and Mrs. Weasley popped her head in. “Gin­ny,” she whis­pered, “come down­stairs and help me with the lunch.”

“I’m talk­ing to this lot!” said Gin­ny, out­raged.

“Now!” said Mrs. Weasley, and with­drew.

“She on­ly wants me there so she doesn’t have to be alone with Phlegm!” said Gin­ny cross­ly. She swung her long red hair around in a very good im­ita­tion of Fleur and pranced across the room with her arms held aloft like a bal­le­ri­na.

“You lot had bet­ter come down quick­ly too,” she said as she left.

Har­ry took ad­van­tage of the tem­po­rary si­lence to eat more break­fast. Hermione was peer­ing in­to Fred and George’s box­es, though ev­ery now and then she cast side­ways looks at Har­ry. Ron, who was now help­ing him­self to Har­ry…s toast, was still gaz­ing dream­ily at the door.

“What’s this?” Hermione asked even­tu­al­ly, hold­ing up what looked like a small tele­scope.

“Dun­no,” said Ron, “but if Fred and George left it here, it’s prob­ably not ready for the joke shop yet, so be care­ful”

“Your mum said the shop’s go­ing well,” said Har­ry. “Said Fred and George have got a re­al flair for busi­ness.”

“That’s an un­der­state­ment,” said Ron. “They’re rak­ing in the Galleons! I can’t wait to see the place, we haven’t been to Di­agon Al­ley yet, be­cause Mum says Dad’s got to be there for ex­tra se­cu­ri­ty and he’s been re­al­ly busy at work, but it sounds ex­cel­lent.”

“And what about Per­cy?” asked Har­ry; the third­el­dest Weasley broth­er had fall­en out with the rest of the fam­ily. “Is he talk­ing to your mum and dad again?”

“Nope,” said Ron.

“But he knows your dad was right all along now about Volde­mort be­ing back…”

“Dum­ble­dore says peo­ple find it far eas­ier to for­give oth­ers for be­ing wrong than be­ing right,” said Hermione. “I heard him telling your mum, Ron.”

“Sounds like the sort of men­tal thing Dum­ble­dore would say,” said Ron.

“He’s go­ing to be giv­ing me pri­vate lessons this year,” said Har­ry con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly.

Ron choked on his bit of toast, and Hermione gasped.

“You kept that qui­et!” said Ron.

“I on­ly just re­mem­bered,” said Har­ry hon­est­ly. “He told me last night in your broom shed.”

“Blimey… pri­vate lessons with Dum­ble­dore!” said Ron, look­ing im­pressed. “I won­der why he’s… ?”

His voice tailed away. Har­ry saw him and Hermione ex­change looks. Har­ry laid down his knife and fork, his heart beat­ing rather fast con­sid­er­ing that all he was do­ing was sit­ting in bed. Dum­ble­dore had said to do it… Why not now? He fixed his eyes on his fork, which was gleam­ing in the sun­light stream­ing in­to his lap, and said, “I don’t know ex­act­ly why he’s go­ing to be giv­ing me lessons, but I think it must be be­cause of the prophe­cy.”

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione spoke. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that both had frozen. He con­tin­ued, still speak­ing to his fork, “You know, the one they were try­ing to steal at the Min­istry.”

“No­body knows what it said, though,” said Hermione quick­ly. “It got smashed.”

“Al­though the Prophet says…” be­gan Ron, but Hermione said, “Shh!”

“The Prophet’s got it right,” said Har­ry, look­ing up at them both with a great ef­fort: Hermione seemed fright­ened and Ron amazed. “That glass ball that smashed wasn’t the on­ly record of the prophe­cy. I heard the whole thing in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, he was the one the prophe­cy was made to, so he could tell me. From what it said,” Har­ry took a deep breath, “it looks like I’m the one who’s got to fin­ish off Volde­mort… At least, it said nei­ther of us could live while the oth­er sur­vives.”

The three of them gazed at one an­oth­er in si­lence for a mo­ment. Then there was a loud bang and Hermione van­ished be­hind a puff of black smoke.

“Hermione!” shout­ed Har­ry and Ron; the break­fast tray slid to the floor with a crash.

Hermione emerged, cough­ing, out of the smoke, clutch­ing the tele­scope and sport­ing a bril­liant­ly pur­ple black eye.

“I squeezed it and it… it punched me!” she gasped.

And sure enough, they now saw a tiny fist on a long spring pro­trud­ing from the end of the tele­scope.

“Don’t wor­ry,” said Ron, who was plain­ly try­ing not to laugh, “Mum’ll fix that, she’s good at heal­ing mi­nor in­ju­ries…”

“Oh well, nev­er mind that now!” said Hermione hasti­ly. “Har­ry, oh, Har­ry…”

She sat down on the edge of his bed again.

“We won­dered, af­ter we got back from the Min­istry… Ob­vi­ous­ly, we didn’t want to say any­thing to you, but from what Lu­cius Mal­foy said about the prophe­cy, how it was about you and Volde­mort, well, we thought it might be some­thing like this… Oh, Har­ry…” She stared at him, then whis­pered, “Are you scared?”

“Not as much as I was,” said Har­ry. “When I first heard it, I was… but now, it seems as though I al­ways knew I’d have to face him in the end…”

“When we heard Dum­ble­dore was col­lect­ing you in per­son, we thought he might be telling you some­thing or show­ing you some­thing to do with the prophe­cy,” said Ron ea­ger­ly. “And we were kind of right, weren’t we? He wouldn’t be giv­ing you lessons if he thought you were a goner, wouldn’t waste his time… he must think you’ve got a chance!”

“That’s true,” said Hermione. “I won­der what he’ll teach you, Har­ry? Re­al­ly ad­vanced de­fen­sive mag­ic, prob­ably… pow­er­ful coun­ter­curs­es… an­ti­jinx­es…”

Har­ry did not re­al­ly lis­ten. A warmth was spread­ing through him that had noth­ing to do with the sun­light; a tight ob­struc­tion in his chest seemed to be dis­solv­ing. He knew that Ron and Hermione were more shocked than they were let­ting on, but the mere fact that they were still there on ei­ther side of him, speak­ing brac­ing words of com­fort, not shrink­ing from him as though he were con­tam­inat­ed or dan­ger­ous, was worth more than he could ev­er tell them.

“…and eva­sive en­chant­ments gen­er­al­ly,” con­clud­ed Hermione. “Well, at least you know one les­son you’ll be hav­ing this year, that’s one more than Ron and me. I won­der when our OWL re­sults will come?”

“Cant be long now, it’s been a month,” said Ron.

“Hang on,” said Har­ry, as an­oth­er part of last night’s con­ver­sa­tion came back to him. “I think Dum­ble­dore said our OWL re­sults would be ar­riv­ing to­day!”

“To­day?” shrieked Hermione. “To­day? But why didn’t you… oh my God… you should have said…”

She leapt to her feet.

“I’m go­ing to see whether any owls have come…”

But when Har­ry ar­rived down­stairs ten min­utes lat­er, ful­ly dressed and car­ry­ing his emp­ty break­fast tray, it was to find Hermione sit­ting at the kitchen ta­ble in great ag­ita­tion, while Mrs. Weasley tried to lessen her re­sem­blance to half a pan­da.

“It just won’t budge,” Mrs. Weasley was say­ing anx­ious­ly, stand­ing over Hermione with her wand in her hand and a copy of The Heal­er’s Help­mate open at “Bruis­es, Cuts, and Abra­sions.” “This has al­ways worked be­fore, I just can’t un­der­stand it.”

“It’ll be Fred and George’s idea of a fun­ny joke, mak­ing sure it can’t come off,” said Gin­ny.

“But it’s got to come off!” squeaked Hermione. “I can’t go around look­ing like this for­ev­er!”

“You won’t, dear, we’ll find an an­ti­dote, don’t wor­ry,” said Mrs. Weasley sooth­ing­ly.

“Bill told me W Fred and George are very amus­ing!” said Fleur, smil­ing serene­ly.

“Yes, I can hard­ly breathe for laugh­ing,” snapped Hermione.

She jumped up and start­ed walk­ing round and round the kitchen, twist­ing her fin­gers to­geth­er.

“Mrs. Weasley, you’re quite, quite sure no owls have ar­rived this morn­ing?”

“Yes, dear, I’d have no­ticed,” said Mrs. Weasley pa­tient­ly. “But it’s bare­ly nine, there’s still plen­ty of time…”

“I know I messed up An­cient Runes,” mut­tered Hermione fever­ish­ly, “I def­inite­ly made at least one se­ri­ous mis­trans­la­tion. And the De­fense Against the Dark Arts prac­ti­cal was no good at all. I thought Trans­fig­ura­tion went all right at the time, but look­ing back…”

“Hermione, will you shut up, you’re not the on­ly one who’s ner­vous!” barked Ron. “And when you’ve got your eleven ‘Out­stand­ing OWLs…’”

“Don’t, don’t, don’t!” said Hermione, flap­ping her hands hys­ter­ical­ly. “I know I’ve failed ev­ery­thing!”

“What hap­pens if we fail?” Har­ry asked the room at large, but it was again Hermione who an­swered.

“We dis­cuss our op­tions with our Head of House, I asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall at the end of last term.”

Har­ry’s stom­ach squirmed. He wished he had eat­en less break­fast.

“At Beaux­ba­tons,” said Fleur com­pla­cent­ly, “we ‘ad a dif­fer­ent way of do­ing things. I think eet was bet­ter. We sat our ex­am­ina­tions af­ter six years of study, not five, and then…”

Fleur’s words were drowned in a scream. Hermione was point­ing through the kitchen win­dow. Three black specks were clear­ly vis­ible in the sky, grow­ing larg­er all the time.

“They’re def­inite­ly owls,” said Ron hoarse­ly, jump­ing up to join Hermione at the win­dow.

“And there are three of them,” said Har­ry, has­ten­ing to her oth­er side.

“One for each of us,” said Hermione in a ter­ri­fied whis­per. “Oh no… oh no… oh no…”

She gripped both Har­ry and Ron tight­ly around the el­bows.

The owls were fly­ing di­rect­ly at the Bur­row, three hand­some tawnies, each of which, it be­came clear as they flew low­er over the path lead­ing up to the house, was car­ry­ing a large square en­ve­lope.

“Oh no!” squealed Hermione.

Mrs. Weasley squeezed past them and opened the kitchen win­dow. One, two, three, the owls soared through it and land­ed on the ta­ble in a neat line. All three of them lift­ed their right legs.

Har­ry moved for­ward. The let­ter ad­dressed to him was tied to the leg of the owl in the mid­dle. He un­tied it with fum­bling fin­gers. To his left, Ron was try­ing to de­tach his own re­sults; to his right, Hermione’s hands were shak­ing so much she was mak­ing her whole owl trem­ble.

No­body in the kitchen spoke. At last, Har­ry man­aged to de­tach the en­ve­lope. He slit it open quick­ly and un­fold­ed the parch­ment in­side.

Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­el Re­sults

Pass Grades:

Out­stand­ing (O)

Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions (E)

Ac­cept­able (A)

Fail Grades:

Poor (P)

Dread­ful (D)

Troll (T)

Har­ry James Pot­ter has achieved:

As­tron­omy A

Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures E

Charms E

De­fense Against the Dark Arts O

Div­ina­tion P

Her­bol­ogy E

His­to­ry of Mag­ic D

Po­tions E

Trans­fig­ura­tion E

Har­ry read the parch­ment through sev­er­al times, his breath­ing be­com­ing eas­ier with each read­ing. It was all right: He had al­ways known that he would fail Div­ina­tion, and he had had no chance of pass­ing His­to­ry of Mag­ic, giv­en that he had col­lapsed halfway through the ex­am­ina­tion, but he had passed ev­ery­thing else! He ran his fin­ger down the grades… he had passed well in Trans­fig­ura­tion and Her­bol­ogy, he had even ex­ceed­ed ex­pec­ta­tions at Po­tions! And best of all, he had achieved “Out­stand­ing” at De­fense Against the Dark Arts!

He looked around. Hermione had her back to him and her head bent, but Ron was look­ing de­light­ed.

“On­ly failed Div­ina­tion and His­to­ry of Mag­ic, and who cares about them?” he said hap­pi­ly to Har­ry. “Here… swap…”

Har­ry glanced down Ron’s grades: There were no “Out­stand­in­gs” there…

“Knew you’d be top at De­fense Against the Dark Arts,” said Ron, punch­ing Har­ry on the shoul­der. “We’ve done all right, haven’t we?”

“Well done!” said Mrs. Weasley proud­ly, ruf­fling Ron’s hair. “Sev­en OWLs, that’s more than Fred and George got to­geth­er!”

“Hermione?” said Gin­ny ten­ta­tive­ly, for Hermione still hadn’t turned around. “How did you do?”

“I–not bad,” said Hermione in a small voice.

“Oh, come off it,” said Ron, strid­ing over to her and whip­ping her re­sults out of her hand. “Yep… ten ‘Out­stand­in­gs’ and one ‘Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions’ at De­fense Against the Dark Arts.” He looked down at her, hal­fa­mused, halfex­as­per­at­ed. “You’re ac­tu­al­ly dis­ap­point­ed, aren’t you?”

Hermione shook her head, but Har­ry laughed.

“Well, we’re N.E.W.T. stu­dents now!” grinned Ron. “Mum, are there any more sausages?”

Har­ry looked back down at his re­sults. They were as good as he could have hoped for. He felt just one tiny twinge of re­gret… This was the end of his am­bi­tion to be­come an Au­ror. He had not se­cured the re­quired Po­tions grade. He had known all along that he wouldn’t, but he still felt a sink­ing in his stom­ach as he looked again at that small black E.

It was odd, re­al­ly, see­ing that it had been a Death Eater in dis­guise who had first told Har­ry he would make a good Au­ror, but some­how the idea had tak­en hold of him, and he couldn’t re­al­ly think of any­thing else he would like to be. More­over, it had seemed the right des­tiny for him since he had heard the prophe­cy a few weeks ago… Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives…Wouldn’t he be liv­ing up to the prophe­cy, and giv­ing him­self the best chance of sur­vi­val, if he joined those high­ly trained wiz­ards whose job it was to find and kill Volde­mort?





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 6: Draco’s Detour


Har­ry re­mained with­in the con­fines of the Bur­row’s gar­den over the next few weeks. He spent most of his days play­ing twoa­side Quid­ditch in the Weasleys’ or­chard (he and Hermione against Ron and Gin­ny; Hermione was dread­ful and Gin­ny good, so they were rea­son­ably well matched) and his evenings eat­ing triple help­in­gs of ev­ery­thing Mrs. Weasley put in front of him.

It would have been a hap­py, peace­ful hol­iday had it not been for the stones of dis­ap­pear­an­ces, odd ac­ci­dents, even of deaths now ap­pear­ing al­most dai­ly in the Prophet. Some­times Bill and Mr. Weasley brought home news be­fore it even reached the pa­per. To Mrs. Weasley’s dis­plea­sure, Har­ry’s six­teenth birth­day cel­ebra­tions were marred by gris­ly tid­in­gs brought to the par­ty by Re­mus Lupin, who was look­ing gaunt and grim, his brown hair streaked lib­er­al­ly with gray, his clothes more ragged and patched than ev­er.

“There have been an­oth­er cou­ple of de­men­tor at­tacks,” he an­nounced, as Mrs. Weasley passed him a large slice of birth­day cake. “And they’ve found Ig­or Karkaroff’s body in a shack up north. The Dark Mark had been set over it… well, frankly, I’m sur­prised he stayed alive for even a year af­ter de­sert­ing the Death Eaters; Sir­ius’s broth­er, Reg­ulus, on­ly man­aged a few days as far as I can re­mem­ber.”

“Yes, well,” said Mrs. Weasley, frown­ing, “per­haps we should talk about some­thing diff…”

“Did you hear about Flo­re­an Fortes­cue, Re­mus?” asked Bill, who was be­ing plied with wine by Fleur. “The man who ran…”

“Is the ice­cream place in Di­agon Al­ley?” Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed, with an un­pleas­ant, hol­low sen­sa­tion in the pit of his stom­ach. “He used to give me free ice creams. What’s hap­pened to him?”

“Dragged off, by the look of his place.”

“Why?” asked Ron, while Mrs. Weasley point­ed­ly glared at Bill.

“Who knows? He must’ve up­set them some­how. He was a good man, Flo­re­an.”

“Talk­ing of Di­agon Al­ley,” said Mr. Weasley, “looks like Ol­li­van­der’s gone too.”

“The wand­mak­er?” said Gin­ny, look­ing star­tled.

“That’s the one. Shop’s emp­ty. No sign of a strug­gle. No one knows whether he left vol­un­tar­ily or was kid­napped.”

“But what’ll peo­ple do for wands?”

“They’ll make do with oth­er mak­ers,” said Lupin. “But Ol­li­van­der was the best, and if the oth­er side have got him it’s not so good for us.”

The day af­ter this rather gloomy birth­day tea, their let­ters and book­lists ar­rived from Hog­warts. Har­ry’s in­clud­ed a sur­prise: he had been made Quid­ditch Cap­tain.

“That gives you equal sta­tus with pre­fects!” cried Hermione hap­pi­ly. “You can use our spe­cial bath­room now and ev­ery­thing!”

“Wow, I re­mem­ber when Char­lie wore one of these,” said Ron, ex­am­in­ing the badge with glee. “Har­ry, this is so cool, you’re my Cap­tain… if you let me back on the team, I sup­pose, ha ha…”

“Well, I don’t sup­pose we can put off a trip to Di­agon Al­ley much longer now you’ve got these,” sighed Mrs. Weasley, look­ing down Ron…s book­list. “We’ll go on Sat­ur­day as long as your fa­ther doesn’t have to go in­to work again. I’m not go­ing there with­out him.”

“Mum, d’you hon­est­ly think YouKnowWho’s go­ing to be hid­ing be­hind a book­shelf in Flour­ish and Blotts?” snig­gered Ron.

“Fortes­cue and Ol­li­van­der went on hol­iday, did they?” said Mrs. Weasley, fir­ing up at once. “If you think se­cu­ri­ty’s a laugh­ing mat­ter you can stay be­hind and I’ll get your things my­self…”

“No, I wan­na come, I want to see Fred and George’s shop!” said Ron hasti­ly.

“Then you just buck up your ideas, young man, be­fore I de­cide you’re too im­ma­ture to come with us!” said Mrs. Weasley an­gri­ly, snatch­ing up her clock, all nine hands of which were still point­ing at “mor­tal per­il,” and bal­anc­ing it on top of a pile of just­laun­dered tow­els. “And that goes for re­turn­ing to Hog­warts as well!”

Ron turned to stare in­cred­ulous­ly at Har­ry as his moth­er hoist­ed the laun­dry bas­ket and the tee­ter­ing clock in­to her arms and stormed out of the room.

“Blimey… you can’t even make a joke round here any­more…”

But Ron was care­ful not to be flip­pant about Volde­mort over the next few days. Sat­ur­day dawned with­out any more out­bursts from Mrs. Weasley, though she seemed very tense at break­fast. Bill, who would be stay­ing at home with Fleur (much to Hermione and Gin­ny’s plea­sure), passed a full mon­ey bag across the ta­ble to Har­ry.

“Where’s mine?” de­mand­ed Ron at once, his eyes wide.

“That’s al­ready Har­ry’s, id­iot,” said Bill. “I got it out of your vault for you, Har­ry, be­cause it’s tak­ing about five hours for the pub­lic to get to their gold at the mo­ment, the gob­lins have tight­ened se­cu­ri­ty so much. Two days ago Arkie Philpott had a Pro­bity Probe stuck up his… Well, trust me, this way’s eas­ier.”

“Thanks, Bill,” said Har­ry, pock­et­ing his gold.

“E is al­ways so thought­ful,” purred Fleur ador­ing­ly, stroking Bill’s nose. Gin­ny mimed vom­it­ing in­to her ce­re­al be­hind Fleur. Har­ry choked over his corn­flakes, and Ron thumped him on the back.

It was an over­cast, murky day. One of the spe­cial Min­istry of Mag­ic cars, in which Har­ry had rid­den once be­fore, was await­ing them in the front yard when they emerged from the house, pulling on their cloaks.

“It’s good Dad can get us these again,” said Ron ap­pre­cia­tive­ly, stretch­ing lux­uri­ous­ly as the car moved smooth­ly away from the Bur­row, Bill and Fleur wav­ing from the kitchen win­dow. He, Har­ry, Hermione, and Gin­ny were all sit­ting in roomy com­fort in the wide back­seat.

“Don’t get used to it, it’s on­ly be­cause of Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley over his shoul­der. He and Mrs. Weasley were in front with the Min­istry driv­er; the front pas­sen­ger seat had oblig­ing­ly stretched in­to what re­sem­bled a twoseater so­fa. “He’s been giv­en top­grade se­cu­ri­ty sta­tus. And we’ll be join­ing up with ad­di­tion­al se­cu­ri­ty at the Leaky Caul­dron too.”

Har­ry said noth­ing; he did not much fan­cy do­ing his shop­ping while sur­round­ed by a bat­tal­ion of Au­rors. He had stowed his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in his back­pack and felt that, if that was good enough for Dum­ble­dore, it ought to be good enough for the Min­istry, though now he came to think of it, he was not sure the Min­istry knew about his cloak.

“Here you are, then,” said the driv­er, a sur­pris­ing­ly short while lat­er, speak­ing for the first time as he slowed in Char­ing Cross Road and stopped out­side the Leaky Caul­dron. “I’m to wait for you, any idea how long you’ll be?”

“A cou­ple of hours, I ex­pect,” said Mr. Weasley. “Ah, good, he’s here!”

Har­ry im­itat­ed Mr. Weasley and peered through the win­dow; his heart leapt. There were no Au­rors wait­ing out­side the inn, but in­stead the gi­gan­tic, black­beard­ed form of Rubeus Ha­grid, the Hog­warts game­keep­er, wear­ing a long beaver­skin coat, beam­ing at the sight of Har­ry’s face and obliv­ious to the star­tled stares of pass­ing Mug­gles.

“Har­ry!” he boomed, sweep­ing Har­ry in­to a bonecrush­ing hug the mo­ment Har­ry had stepped out of the car. “Buck­beak… With­er­wings, I mean… yeh should see him, Har­ry, he’s so hap­py ter be back in the open air…”

“Glad he’s pleased,” said Har­ry, grin­ning as he mas­saged his ribs. “We didn’t know ’se­cu­ri­ty’ meant you!”

“I know, jus’ like old times, in­nit? See, the Min­istry want­ed ter send a bunch o’ Au­rors, but Dum­ble­dore said I’d do,” said Ha­grid proud­ly, throw­ing out his chest and tuck­ing his thumbs in­to his pock­ets. “Lets get goin’ then… af­ter yeh, Mol­ly, Arthur…”

The Leaky Caul­dron was, for the first time in Har­ry’s mem­ory, com­plete­ly emp­ty. On­ly Tom the land­lord, wiz­ened and tooth­less, re­mained of the old crowd. He looked up hope­ful­ly as they en­tered, but be­fore he could speak, Ha­grid said im­por­tant­ly, “Jus’ passin’ through to­day, Tom, sure yeh un­der­stand, Hog­warts busi­ness, yeh know.”

Tom nod­ded gloo­mi­ly and re­turned to wip­ing glass­es; Har­ry, Hermione, Ha­grid, and the Weasleys walked through the bar and out in­to the chilly lit­tle court­yard at the back where the dust­bins stood. Ha­grid raised his pink um­brel­la and rapped a cer­tain brick in the wall, which opened at once to form an arch­way on­to a wind­ing cob­bled street. They stepped through the en­trance and paused, look­ing around.

Di­agon Al­ley had changed. The col­or­ful, glit­ter­ing win­dow dis­plays of spell­books, po­tion in­gre­di­ents, and caul­drons were lost to view, hid­den be­hind the large Min­istry of Mag­ic posters that had been past­ed over them. Most of these somber pur­ple posters car­ried blownup ver­sions of the se­cu­ri­ty ad­vice on the Min­istry pam­phlets that had been sent out over the sum­mer, but oth­ers bore mov­ing blackand­white pho­tographs of Death Eaters known to be on the loose. Bel­la­trix Lestrange was sneer­ing from the front of the near­est apothe­cary. A few win­dows were board­ed up, in­clud­ing those of Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice Cream Par­lor. On the oth­er hand, a num­ber of shab­by­look­ing stalls had sprung up along the street. The near­est one, which had been erect­ed out­side Flour­ish and Blotts, un­der a striped, stained awning, had a card­board sign pinned to its front:

AMULETS

Ef­fec­tive Against Were­wolves, De­men­tors, and In­feri!

A seedy­look­ing lit­tle wiz­ard was rat­tling arm­fuls of sil­ver sym­bols on chains at passers­by.

“One for your lit­tle girl, madam?” he called at Mrs. Weasley as they passed, leer­ing at Gin­ny. “Pro­tect her pret­ty neck?”

“If I were on du­ty…” said Mr. Weasley, glar­ing an­gri­ly at the amulet sell­er.

“Yes, but don’t go ar­rest­ing any­one now, dear, we’re in a hur­ry,” said Mrs. Weasley, ner­vous­ly con­sult­ing a list. “I think we’d bet­ter do Madam Malkin’s first, Hermione wants new dress robes, and Ron’s show­ing much too much an­kle in his school robes, and you must need new ones too, Har­ry, you’ve grown so much… come on, ev­ery­one…”

“Mol­ly, it doesn’t make sense for all of us to go to Madam Malkin’s,” said Mr. Weasley. “Why don’t those three go with Ha­grid, and we can go to Flour­ish and Blotts and get ev­ery­one’s school­books?”

“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Weasley anx­ious­ly, clear­ly torn be­tween a de­sire to fin­ish the shop­ping quick­ly and the wish to stick to­geth­er in a pack. “Ha­grid, do you think…- ?”

“Don’t fret, they’ll be fine with me, Mol­ly,” said Ha­grid sooth­ing­ly, wav­ing an airy hand the size of a dust­bin lid. Mrs. Weasley did not look en­tire­ly con­vinced, but al­lowed the sep­ara­tion, scur­ry­ing off to­ward Flour­ish and Blotts with her hus­band and Gin­ny while Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Ha­grid set off for Madam Malkin’s.

Har­ry no­ticed that many of the peo­ple who passed them had the same har­ried, anx­ious look as Mrs. Weasley, and that no­body was stop­ping to talk any­more; the shop­pers stayed to­geth­er in their own tight­ly knit groups, mov­ing in­tent­ly about their busi­ness. No­body seemed to be shop­ping alone.

“Migh’ be a bit of a squeeze in there with all of us,” said Ha­grid, stop­ping out­side Madam Malkin’s and bend­ing down to peer through the win­dow. “I’ll stand guard out­side, all right?”

So Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione en­tered the lit­tle shop to­geth­er. It ap­peared, at first glance, to be emp­ty, but no soon­er had the door swung shut be­hind them than they heard a fa­mil­iar voice is­su­ing from be­hind a rack of dress robes in span­gled green and blue.

“… not a child, in case you haven’t no­ticed, Moth­er. I am per­fect­ly ca­pa­ble of do­ing my shop­ping alone.”

There was a cluck­ing noise and a voice Har­ry rec­og­nized as that of Madam Malkin, the own­er, said, “Now, dear, your moth­er’s quite right, none of us is sup­posed to go wan­der­ing around on our own any­more, it’s noth­ing to do with be­ing a child…”

“Watch where you’re stick­ing that pin, will you!”

A teenage boy with a pale, point­ed face and white­blond hair ap­peared from be­hind the rack, wear­ing a hand­some set of dark green robes that glit­tered with pins around the hem and the edges of the sleeves. He strode to the mir­ror and ex­am­in­ed him­self; it was a few mo­ments be­fore he no­ticed Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione re­flect­ed over his shoul­der. His light gray eyes nar­rowed.

“If you’re won­der­ing what the smell is, Moth­er, a Mud­blood just walked in,” said Dra­co Mal­foy.

“I don’t think there’s any need for lan­guage like that!” said Madam Malkin, scur­ry­ing out from be­hind the clothes rack hold­ing a tape mea­sure and a wand. “And I don’t want wands drawn in my shop ei­ther!” she added hasti­ly, for a glance to­ward the door had shown her Har­ry and Ron both stand­ing there with their wands out and point­ing at Mal­foy. Hermione, who was stand­ing slight­ly be­hind them, whis­pered, “No, don’t, hon­est­ly, it’s not worth it. “

“Yeah, like you’d dare do mag­ic out of school,” sneered Mal­foy. “Who blacked your eye, Granger? I want to send them flow­ers.”

“That’s quite enough!” said Madam Malkin sharply, look­ing over her shoul­der for sup­port. “Madam, please!”

Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy strolled out from be­hind the clothes rack.

“Put those away,” she said cold­ly to Har­ry and Ron. “If you at­tack my son again, I shall en­sure that it is the last thing you ev­er do.”

“Re­al­ly?” said Har­ry, tak­ing a step for­ward and gaz­ing in­to the smooth­ly ar­ro­gant face that, for all its pal­lor, still re­sem­bled her sis­ter’s. He was as tall as she was now. “Go­ing to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in, are you?”

Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart.

“Re­al­ly, you shouldn’t ac­cuse… dan­ger­ous thing to say… wands away, please!”

But Har­ry did not low­er his wand. Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy smiled un­pleas­ant­ly.

“I see that be­ing Dum­ble­dore’s fa­vorite has giv­en you a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty, Har­ry Pot­ter. But Dum­ble­dore won’t al­ways be there to pro­tect you.”

Har­ry looked mock­ing­ly all around the shop. “Wow… look at that… he’s not here now! So why not have a go? They might be able to find you a dou­ble cell in Azk­aban with your los­er of a hus­band!”

Mal­foy made an an­gry move­ment to­ward Har­ry, but stum­bled over his over­long robe. Ron laughed loud­ly.

“Don’t you dare talk to my moth­er like that, Pot­ter!” Mal­foy snarled.

“It’s all right, Dra­co,” said Nar­cis­sa, re­strain­ing him with her thin white fin­gers up­on his shoul­der. “I ex­pect Pot­ter will be re­unit­ed with dear Sir­ius be­fore I am re­unit­ed with Lu­cius.”

Har­ry raised his wand high­er.

“Har­ry, no!” moaned Hermione, grab­bing his arm and at­tempt­ing to push it down by his side. “Think… You mustn’t… You’ll be in such trou­ble…”

Madam Malkin dithered for a mo­ment on the spot, then seemed to de­cide to act as though noth­ing was hap­pen­ing in the hope that it wouldn’t. She bent to­ward Mal­foy, who was still glar­ing at Har­ry.

“I think this left sleeve could come up a lit­tle bit more, dear, let me just…”

“Ouch!” bel­lowed Mal­foy, slap­ping her hand away. “Watch where you’re putting your pins, wom­an! Moth­er, I don’t think I want these any­more.”

He pulled the robes over his head and threw them on­to the floor at Madam Malkin’s feet.

“You’re right, Dra­co,” said Nar­cis­sa, with a con­temp­tu­ous glance at Hermione, “now I know the kind of scum that shops here… We’ll do bet­ter at Twil­fitt and Tat­ting’s.”

And with that, the pair of them strode out of the shop, Mal­foy tak­ing care to bang as hard as he could in­to Ron on the way out.

“Well, re­al­ly? said Madam Malkin, snatch­ing up the fall­en robes and mov­ing the tip of her wand over them like a vac­uum clean­er, so that it re­moved all the dust.

She was dis­tract­ed all through the fit­ting of Ron’s and Har­ry’s new robes, tried to sell Hermione wiz­ard’s dress robes in­stead of witch’s, and when she fi­nal­ly bowed them out of the shop it was with an air of be­ing glad to see the back of them.

“Got ev’ry­thing?” asked Ha­grid bright­ly when they reap­peared at his side.

“Just about,” said Har­ry. “Did you see the Mal­foys?”

“Yeah,” said Ha­grid, un­con­cerned. “Bu they wouldn… dare make trou­ble in the mid­dle o’ Di­agon Al­ley, Har­ry. Don’ wor­ry abou1 them.”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ex­changed looks, but be­fore they could dis­abuse Ha­grid of this com­fort­able no­tion, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny ap­peared, all clutch­ing heavy pack­ages of books.

“Ev­ery­one all right?” said Mrs. Weasley. “Got your robes? Right then, we can pop in at the Apothe­cary and Eey­lops on the way to Fred and George’s… stick close, now…”

Nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron bought any in­gre­di­ents at the Apothe­cary, see­ing that they were no longer study­ing Po­tions, but both bought large box­es of owl nuts for Hed­wig and Pig­wid­geon at Eey­lops Owl Em­po­ri­um. Then, with Mrs. Weasley check­ing her watch ev­ery minute or so, they head­ed far­ther along the street in search of Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes, the joke shop run by Fred and George.

“We re­al­ly haven’t got too long,” Mrs. Weasley said. “So we’ll just have a quick look around and then back to the car. We must be close, that’s num­ber nine­tyt­wo… nine­ty­four…”

“Whoa,”said Ron, stop­ping in his tracks.

Set against the dull, poster­muf­fled shop Fronts around them, Fred and Georges win­dows hit the eye like a fire­work dis­play. Ca­su­al passers­by were look­ing back over their shoul­ders at the win­dows, and a few rather stunned­look­ing peo­ple had ac­tu­al­ly come to a halt, trans­fixed. The left­hand win­dow was daz­zling­ly full of an as­sort­ment of goods that re­volved, popped, flashed, bounced, and shrieked; Har­rys eyes be­gan to wa­ter just look­ing at it. The right­hand win­dow was cov­ered with a gi­gan­tic poster, pur­ple like those of the Min­istry, but em­bla­zoned with flash­ing yel­low let­ters:

WHY ARE YOU WOR­RY­ING ABOUT YOUKNOWWHO? YOU SHOULD BE WOR­RY­ING ABOUT UN­OPOO– THE CON­STI­PA­TION SEN­SA­TION THAT’S GRIP­PING THE NA­TION!

Har­ry start­ed to laugh. He heard a weak sort of moan be­side him and looked around to see Mrs. Weasley gaz­ing, dumb­found­ed, at the poster. Her lips moved silent­ly, mouthing the name “UN­oPoo.”

“They’ll be mur­dered in their beds!” she whis­pered.

“No they won’t!” said Ron, who, like Har­ry, was laugh­ing. “This is bril­liant!”

And he and Har­ry led the way in­to the shop. It was packed with cus­tomers; Har­ry could not get near the shelves. He stared around, look­ing up at the box­es piled to the ceil­ing: Here were the Skiv­ing Snack­box­es that the twins had per­fect­ed dur­ing their last, un­fin­ished year at Hog­warts; Har­ry no­ticed that the Nose­bleed Nougat was most pop­ular, with on­ly one bat­tered box left on the shelf. There were bins full of trick wands, the cheap­est mere­ly turn­ing in­to rub­ber chick­ens or pairs of briefs when waved, the most ex­pen­sive beat­ing the un­wary us­er around the head and neck, and box­es of quills, which came in Self­Ink­ing, SpellCheck­ing, and Smar­tAn­swer va­ri­eties. A space cleared in the crowd, and Har­ry pushed his way to­ward the counter, where a gag­gle of de­light­ed tenyearolds was watch­ing a tiny lit­tle wood­en man slow­ly as­cend­ing the steps to a re­al set of gal­lows, both perched on a box that read: Reusable hang­man - spell it or he’ll swing!

“Patent­ed Day­dream Charms”

Hermione had man­aged to squeeze through to a large dis­play near the counter and was read­ing the in­for­ma­tion on the back of a box bear­ing a high­ly col­ored pic­ture of a hand­some youth and a swoon­ing girl who were stand­ing on the deck of a pi­rate ship.

“One sim­ple in­can­ta­tion and you will en­ter a topqual­ity, high­ly re­al­is­tic, thir­tyminute day­dream, easy to fit in­to the av­er­age school les­son and vir­tu­al­ly un­de­tectable (side ef­fects in­clude va­cant ex­pres­sion and mi­nor drool­ing). Not for sale to un­der­six­teens. You know,” said Hermione, look­ing up at Har­ry, “that re­al­ly is ex­traor­di­nary mag­ic!”

“For that, Hermione,” said a voice be­hind them, “you can have one for free.”

A beam­ing Fred stood be­fore them, wear­ing a set of ma­gen­ta robes that clashed mag­nif­icent­ly with his flam­ing hair.

“How are you, Har­ry?” They shook hands. “And what’s hap­pened to your eye, Hermione?”

Your punch­ing tele­scope,” she said rue­ful­ly.

“Oh blimey, I for­got about those,” said Fred. “Here…”

He pulled a tub out of his pock­et and hand­ed it to her; she un­screwed it gin­ger­ly to re­veal a thick yel­low paste.

“Just dab it on, that bruise’ll be gone with­in the hour,” said Fred. “We had to find a de­cent bruise re­mover. We’re test­ing most of our prod­ucts on our­selves.”

Hermione looked ner­vous. “It is safe, isn’t it?” she asked.

“Course it is,” said Fred brac­ing­ly. “Come on, Har­ry, I’ll give you a tour.”

Har­ry left Hermione dab­bing her black eye with paste and fol­lowed Fred to­ward the back of the shop, where he saw a stand of card and rope tricks.

“Mug­gle mag­ic tricks!” said Fred hap­pi­ly, point­ing them out. “For freaks like Dad, you know, who love Mug­gle stuff. It’s not a big earn­er, but we do fair­ly steady busi­ness, they’re great nov­el­ties… Oh, here’s George…”

Fred’s twin shook Har­rys hand en­er­get­ical­ly.

“Giv­ing him the tour? Come through the back, Har­ry, that’s where we’re mak­ing the re­al mon­ey…pock­et any­thing, you, and you’ll pay in more than Galleons!” he added warn­ing­ly to a small boy who hasti­ly whipped his hand out of the tub la­beled:

ED­IBLE DARK MARKS—-THEY’LL MAKE ANY­ONE SICK!

George pushed back a cur­tain be­side the Mug­gle tricks and Har­ry saw a dark­er, less crowd­ed room. The pack­ag­ing on the prod­ucts lin­ing these shelves was more sub­dued.

“We’ve just de­vel­oped this more se­ri­ous line,” said Fred. “Fun­ny how it hap­pened…”

“You wouldn’t be­lieve how many peo­ple, even peo­ple who work at the Min­istry, can’t do a de­cent Shield Charm,” said George. “‘Course, they didn’t have you teach­ing them, Har­ry.”

“That’s right… Well, we thought Shield Hats were a bit of a laugh, you know, chal­lenge your mate to jinx you while wear­ing it and watch his face when the jinx just bounces off. But the Min­istry bought five hun­dred for all its sup­port staff! And we’re still get­ting mas­sive or­ders!”

“So we’ve ex­pand­ed in­to a range of Shield Cloaks, Shield Gloves…”

“… I mean, they wouldn’t help much against the Un­for­giv­able Curs­es, but for mi­nor to mod­er­ate hex­es or jinx­es…”

“And then we thought we’d get in­to the whole area of De­fense Against the Dark Arts, be­cause it’s such a mon­ey spin­ner,” con­tin­ued George en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “This is cool. Look, In­stant Dark­ness Pow­der, we’re im­port­ing it from Pe­ru. Handy if you want to make a quick es­cape.”

“And our De­coy Det­ona­tors are just walk­ing off the shelves, look,” said Fred, point­ing at a num­ber of weird­look­ing black horn­type ob­jects that were in­deed at­tempt­ing to scur­ry out of sight. “You just drop one sur­rep­ti­tious­ly and it’ll run off and make a nice loud noise out of sight, giv­ing you a di­ver­sion if you need one.

“Handy,” said Har­ry, im­pressed.

“Here,” said George, catch­ing a cou­ple and throw­ing them to Har­ry.

A young witch with short blonde hair poked her head around the cur­tain; Har­ry saw that she too was wear­ing ma­gen­ta staff robes.

“There’s a cus­tomer out here look­ing for a joke caul­dron, Mr. Weasley and Mr. Weasley,” she said.

Har­ry found it very odd to hear Fred and George called “Mr. Weasley,” but they took it in their stride.

“Right you are, Ver­ity, I’m com­ing,” said George prompt­ly. “Har­ry, you help your­self to any­thing you want, all right? No charge.”

“I can’t do that!” said Har­ry, who had al­ready pulled out his mon­ey bag to pay for the De­coy Det­ona­tors.

“You don’t pay here,” said Fred firm­ly, wav­ing away Har­ry’s gold.

“But…”

“You gave us our start­up loan, we haven’t for­got­ten,” said George stern­ly “Take what­ev­er you like, and just re­mem­ber to tell peo­ple where you got it, if they ask.”

George swept off through the cur­tain to help with the cus­tomers, and Fred led Har­ry back in­to the main part of the shop to find Hermione and Gin­ny still por­ing over the Patent­ed Day­dream Charms.

“Haven’t you girls found our spe­cial Won­der­Witch prod­ucts yet?” asked Fred. “Fol­low me, ladies…”

Near the win­dow was an ar­ray of vi­olent­ly pink prod­ucts around which a clus­ter of ex­cit­ed girls was gig­gling en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. Hermione and Gin­ny both hung back, look­ing wary.

“There you go,” said Fred proud­ly. “Best range of love po­tions you’ll find any­where.”

Gin­ny raised an eye­brow skep­ti­cal­ly. “Do they work?” she asked.

“Cer­tain­ly they work, for up to twen­ty­four hours at a time de­pend­ing on the weight of the boy in ques­tion…”

“… and the at­trac­tive­ness of the girl,” said George, reap­pear­ing sud­den­ly at their side. “But we’re not sell­ing them to our sis­ter,” he added, be­com­ing sud­den­ly stern, “not when she’s al­ready got about five boys on the go from what we’ve…”

“What­ev­er you’ve heard from Ron is a big fat lie,” said Gin­ny calm­ly, lean­ing for­ward to take a small pink pot off the shelf. “What’s this?”

“Guar­an­teed tensec­ond pim­ple van­ish­er,” said Fred. “Ex­cel­lent on ev­ery­thing from boils to black­heads, but don’t change the sub­ject. Are you or are you not cur­rent­ly go­ing out with a boy called Dean Thomas?”

“Yes, I am,” said Gin­ny. “And last time I looked, he was def­inite­ly one boy, not five. What are those?”

She was point­ing at a num­ber of round balls of fluff in shades of pink and pur­ple, all rolling around the bot­tom of a cage and emit­ting high­pitched squeaks.

“Pygmy Puffs,” said George. “Minia­ture puffskeins, we can…t breed them fast enough. So what about Michael Cor­ner?”

“I dumped him, he was a bad los­er,” said Gin­ny, putting a fin­ger through the bars of the cage and watch­ing the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it. “They’re re­al­ly cute!”

“They’re fair­ly cud­dly, yes,” con­ced­ed Fred. “But you’re mov­ing through boyfriends a bit fast, aren’t you?”

Gin­ny turned to look at him, her hands on her hips. There was such a Mrs. Weasley­ish glare on her face that Har­ry was sur­prised Fred didn’t re­coil.

“It’s none of your busi­ness. And I’ll thank you” she added an­gri­ly to Ron, who had just ap­peared at George’s el­bow, laden with mer­chan­dise, “not to tell tales about me to these two!”

“That’s three Galleons, nine Sick­les, and a Knut,” said Fred, ex­am­in­ing the many box­es in Ron’s arms. “Cough up.”

“I’m your broth­er!”

“And that’s our stuff you’re nick­ing. Three Galleons, nine Sick­les. I’ll knock off the Knut.”

“But I haven’t got three Galleons, nine Sick­les!”

“You’d bet­ter put it back then, and mind you put it on the right shelves.”

Ron dropped sev­er­al box­es, swore, and made a rude hand ges­ture at Fred that was un­for­tu­nate­ly spot­ted by Mrs. Weasley, who had cho­sen that mo­ment to ap­pear.

“If I see you do that again I’ll jinx your fin­gers to­geth­er,” she said sharply.

“Mum, can I have a Pygmy Puff?” said Gin­ny at once.

“A what?” said Mrs. Weasley war­ily.

“Look, they’re so sweet…”

Mrs. Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione mo­men­tar­ily had an unim­ped­ed view out of the win­dow. Dra­co Mal­foy was hur­ry­ing up the street alone. As he passed Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes, he glanced over his shoul­der. Sec­onds lat­er, he moved be­yond the scope of the win­dow and they lost sight of him.

“Won­der where his mum­my is?” said Har­ry, frown­ing.

“Giv­en her the slip by the looks of it,” said Ron.

“Why, though?” said Hermione.

Har­ry said noth­ing; he was think­ing too hard. Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy would not have let her pre­cious son out of her sight will­ing­ly; Mal­foy must have made a re­al ef­fort to free him­self from her clutch­es.

Har­ry, know­ing and loathing Mal­foy, was sure the rea­son could not be in­no­cent.

He glanced around. Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny were bend­ing over the Pygmy Puffs. Mr. Weasley was de­light­ed­ly ex­am­in­ing a pack of Mug­gle marked play­ing cards. Fred and George were both help­ing cus­tomers. On the oth­er side of the glass, Ha­grid was stand­ing with his back to them, look­ing up and down the street.

“Get un­der here, quick,” said Har­ry, pulling his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of his bag.

“Oh, I don’t know, Har­ry,” said Hermione, look­ing un­cer­tain­ly to­ward Mrs. Weasley.

“Come on,” said Ron.

She hes­itat­ed for a sec­ond longer, then ducked un­der the cloak with Har­ry and Ron. No­body no­ticed them van­ish; they were all too in­ter­est­ed in Fred and George’s prod­ucts. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed their way out of the door as quick­ly as they could, but by the time they gained the street, Mal­foy had dis­ap­peared just as suc­cess­ful­ly as they had.

“He was go­ing in that di­rec­tion,” mur­mured Har­ry as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, so that the hum­ming Ha­grid would not hear them…Cmon…

They scur­ried along, peer­ing left and right, through shop win­dows and doors, un­til Hermione point­ed ahead.

“That’s him, isn’t it?” she whis­pered. “Turn­ing left?”

“Big sur­prise,” whis­pered Ron.

For Mal­foy had glanced around, then slid in­to Knock­turn Al­ley and out of sight.

“Quick, or we’ll lose him,” said Har­ry, speed­ing up.

“Our feet’ll be seen!” said Hermione anx­ious­ly, as the cloak flapped a lit­tle around their an­kles; it was much more dif­fi­cult hid­ing all three of them un­der the cloak nowa­days.

“It doesn’t mat­ter,” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly. “Just hur­ry!”

But Knock­turn Al­ley, the side street de­vot­ed to the Dark Arts, looked com­plete­ly de­sert­ed. They peered in­to win­dows as they passed, but none of the shops seemed to have any cus­tomers at all. Har­ry sup­posed it was a bit of a give­away in these dan­ger­ous and sus­pi­cious times to buy Dark ar­ti­facts… or at least, to be seen buy­ing them.

Hermione gave his arm a hard pinch.

“Ouch!”

“Shh! Look! He’s in there!” she breathed in Har­ry’s ear.

They had drawn lev­el with the on­ly shop in Knock­turn Al­ley that Har­ry had ev­er vis­it­ed, Bor­gin and Burkes, which sold a wide va­ri­ety of sin­is­ter ob­jects. There in the midst of the cas­es full of skulls and old bot­tles stood Dra­co Mal­foy with his back to them, just vis­ible be­yond the very same large black cab­in­et in which Har­ry had once hid­den to avoid Mal­foy and his fa­ther. Judg­ing by the move­ments of Mal­foy’s hands, he was talk­ing an­imat­ed­ly. The pro­pri­etor of the shop, Mr. Bor­gin, an oily­haired, stoop­ing man, stood fac­ing Mal­foy. He was wear­ing a cu­ri­ous ex­pres­sion of min­gled re­sent­ment and fear.

“If on­ly we could hear what they’re say­ing!” said Hermione.

“We can!” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly. “Hang on, damn.”

He dropped a cou­ple more of the box­es he was still clutch­ing as he fum­bled with the largest.

“Ex­tend­able Ears, look!”

“Fan­tas­tic!” said Hermione, as Ron un­rav­eled the long, flesh­col­ored strings and be­gan to feed them to­ward the bot­tom of the door. “Oh, I hope the door isn’t Im­per­turbable…”

“No!” said Ron glee­ful­ly. “Lis­ten!”

They put their heads to­geth­er and lis­tened in­tent­ly to the ends of the strings, through which Mal­foy’s voice could be heard loud and clear, as though a ra­dio had been turned on.

“… you know how to fix it?”

“Pos­si­bly,” said Bor­gin, in a tone that sug­gest­ed he was un­will­ing to com­mit him­self. “I’ll need to see it, though. Why don’t you bring it in­to the shop?”

“I can’t,” said Mal­foy. “It’s got to stay put. I just need you to tell me how to do it.”

Har­ry saw Bor­gin lick his lips ner­vous­ly.

“Well, with­out see­ing it, I must say it will be a very dif­fi­cult job, per­haps im­pos­si­ble. I couldn’t guar­an­tee any­thing.”

“No?” said Mal­foy, and Har­ry knew, just by his tone, that Mal­foy was sneer­ing. “Per­haps this will make you more con­fi­dent.”

He moved to­ward Bor­gin and was blocked from view by the cab­in­et. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione shuf­fled side­ways to try and keep him in sight, but all they could see was Bor­gin, look­ing very fright­ened.

“Tell any­one,” said Maifoy, “and there will be ret­ri­bu­tion. You know Fen­rir Grey­back? He’s a fam­ily friend. He’ll be drop­ping in from time to time to make sure you’re giv­ing the prob­lem your full at­ten­tion.”

“There will be no need for…”

“I’ll de­cide that,” said Mal­foy. “Well, I’d bet­ter be off. And don’t for­get to keep that one safe, I’ll need it.”

“Per­haps you’d like to take it now?”

“No, of course I wouldn’t, you stupid, lit­tle man, how would I look car­ry­ing that down the street? Just don’t sell it.”

“Of course not… sir.”

Bor­gin made a bow as deep as the one Har­ry had once seen him give Lu­cius Mal­foy.

“Not a word to any­one, Bor­gin, and that in­cludes my moth­er, un­der­stand?”

“Nat­ural­ly, nat­ural­ly,” mur­mured Bor­gin, bow­ing again.

Next mo­ment, the bell over the door tin­kled loud­ly as Mal­foy stalked out of the shop look­ing very pleased with him­self. He passed so close to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione that they felt the cloak flut­ter around their knees again. In­side the shop, Bor­gin re­mained frozen; his unc­tu­ous smile had van­ished; he looked wor­ried.

“What was that about?” whis­pered Ron, reel­ing in the Ex­tend­able Ears.

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry, think­ing hard. “He wants some­thing mend­ed… and he wants to re­serve some­thing in there… Could you see what he point­ed at when he said ‘that one’?”

“No, he was be­hind that cab­in­et…”

“You two stay here,” whis­pered Hermione.

“What are you… ?”

But Hermione had al­ready ducked out from un­der the cloak. She checked her hair in the re­flec­tion in the glass, then marched in­to the shop, set­ting the bell tin­kling again. Ron hasti­ly fed the Ex­tend­able Ears back un­der the door and passed one of the strings to Har­ry.

“Hel­lo, hor­ri­ble morn­ing, isn’t it?” Hermione said bright­ly to Bor­gin, who did not an­swer, but cast her a sus­pi­cious look. Hum­ming cheer­ily, Hermione strolled through the jum­ble of ob­jects on dis­play.

“Is this neck­lace for sale?” she asked, paus­ing be­side a glass­front­ed case.

“If you’ve got one and a half thou­sand Galleons,” said Mr. Bor­gin cold­ly.

“Oh… er… no, I haven’t got quite that much,” said Hermione, walk­ing on. “And… what about this love­ly… um… skull?”

“Six­teen Galleons.”

“So it’s for sale, then? It isn’t be­ing… kept for any­one?”

Mr. Bor­gin squint­ed at her. Har­ry had the nasty feel­ing he knew ex­act­ly what Hermione was up to. Ap­par­ent­ly Hermione felt she had been rum­bled too be­cause she sud­den­ly threw cau­tion to the winds.

“The thing is, that… er… boy who was in here just now, Dra­co Mal­foy, well, he’s a friend of mine, and I want to get him a birth­day present, but if he’s al­ready re­served any­thing, I ob­vi­ous­ly don’t want to get him the same thing, so… um…”

It was a pret­ty lame sto­ry in Har­ry’s opin­ion, and ap­par­ent­ly Bor­gin thought so too.

“Out,” he said sharply. “Get out!”

Hermione did not wait to be asked twice, but hur­ried to the door with Bor­gin at her heels. As the bell tin­kled again, Bor­gin slammed the door be­hind her and put up the closed sign.

“Ah well,” said Ron, throw­ing the cloak back over Hermione. “Worth a try, but you were a bit ob­vi­ous…”

“Well, next time you can show me how it’s done, Mas­ter of Mys­tery!” she snapped.

Ron and Hermione bick­ered all the way back to Weasleys’

Wiz­ard Wheezes, where they were forced to stop so that they could dodge un­de­tect­ed around a very anx­ious­look­ing Mrs. Weasley and Ha­grid, who had clear­ly no­ticed their ab­sence. Once in the shop, Har­ry whipped off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, hid it in his bag, and joined in with the oth­er two when they in­sist­ed, in an­swer to Mrs. Weasleys ac­cu­sa­tions, that they had been in the back room all along, and that she could not have looked prop­er­ly.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 7: The Slug Club


Har­ry spent a lot of the last week of the hol­idays pon­der­ing the mean­ing of Mal­foy’s be­hav­ior in Knock­turn Al­ley. What dis­turbed him most was the sat­is­fied look on Mal­foy’s face as he had left the shop. Noth­ing that made Mal­foy look that hap­py could be good news. To his slight an­noy­an­ce, how­ev­er, nei­ther Ron nor Hermione seemed quite as cu­ri­ous about Mal­foy’s ac­tiv­ities as he was; or at least, they seemed to get bored of dis­cussing it af­ter a few days.

“Yes, I’ve al­ready agreed it was fishy, Har­ry,” said Hermione a lit­tle im­pa­tient­ly. She was sit­ting on the win­dowsill in Fred and George’s room with her feet up on one of the card­board box­es and had on­ly grudg­ing­ly looked up from her new copy of Ad­vanced Rune Trans­la­tion. “But haven’t we agreed there could be a lot of ex­pla­na­tions?”

“Maybe he’s bro­ken his Hand of Glo­ry” said Ron vague­ly, as he at­tempt­ed to straight­en his broom­stick’s bent tail twigs. “Re­mem­ber that shriv­eledup arm Mal­foy had?”

“But what about when he said, ‘Don’t for­get to keep that one safe’?” asked Har­ry for the umpteenth time. “That sound­ed to me like Bor­gin’s got an­oth­er one of the bro­ken ob­jects, and Mal­foy wants both.”

“You reck­on?” said Ron, now try­ing to scrape some dirt off his broom han­dle.

“Yeah, I do,” said Har­ry. When nei­ther Ron nor Hermione an­swered, he said, “Mal­foy’s fa­ther’s in Azk­aban. Don’t you think Mal­foy’d like re­venge?”

Ron looked up, blink­ing.

“Mal­foy, re­venge? What can he do about it?”

“That’s my point, I don’t know!” said Har­ry, frus­trat­ed. “But he’s up to some­thing and I think we should take it se­ri­ous­ly. His fa­ther’s a Death Eater and …”

Har­ry broke off, his eyes fixed on the win­dow be­hind Hermione, his mouth open. A startling thought had just oc­curred to him.

“Har­ry?” said Hermione in an anx­ious voice. “What’s wrong?”

“Your scar’s not hurt­ing again, is it?” asked Ron ner­vous­ly.

“He’s a Death Eater,” said Har­ry slow­ly. “He’s re­placed his fa­ther as a Death Eater!”

There was a si­lence; then Ron erupt­ed in laugh­ter. “Mal­foy? He’s six­teen, Har­ry! You think YouKnowWho would let Mal­foy join?”

“It seems very un­like­ly, Har­ry,” said Hermione in a re­pres­sive sort of voice. “What makes you think … ?”

“In Madam Malkin’s. She didn’t touch him, but he yelled and jerked his arm away from her when she went to roll up his sleeve. It was his left arm. He’s been brand­ed with the Dark Mark.”

Ron and Hermione looked at each oth­er.

“Well…” said Ron, sound­ing thor­ough­ly un­con­vinced.

“I think he just want­ed to get out of there, Har­ry,” said Hermione.

“He showed Bor­gin some­thing we couldn’t see,” Har­ry pressed on stub­born­ly. “Some­thing that se­ri­ous­ly scared Bor­gin. It was the Mark, I know it… he was show­ing Bor­gin who he was deal­ing with, you saw how se­ri­ous­ly Bor­gin took him!”

Ron and Hermione ex­changed an­oth­er look.

“I’m not sure, Har­ry…”

“Yeah, I still don’t reck­on YouKnowWho would let Mal­foy join…”

An­noyed, but ab­so­lute­ly con­vinced he was right, Har­ry snatched up a pile of filthy Quid­ditch robes and left the room; Mrs. Weasley had been urg­ing them for days not to leave their wash­ing and pack­ing un­til the last mo­ment. On the land­ing he bumped in­to Gin­ny, who was re­turn­ing to her room car­ry­ing a pile of fresh­ly laun­dered clothes.

“I wouldn’t go in the kitchen just now,” she warned him. “There’s a lot of Phlegm around.”

“I’ll be care­ful not to slip in it.” Har­ry smiled.

Sure enough, when he en­tered the kitchen it was to find Fleur sit­ting at the kitchen ta­ble, in full flow about plans for her wed­ding to Bill, while Mrs. Weasley kept watch over a pile of self­peel­ing sprouts, look­ing badtem­pered.

“… Bill and I ‘ave al­most de­cid­ed on on­ly two brides­maids, Gin­ny and Gabrielle will look very sweet to­gezzer. I am theenk­ing of dress­ing zem in pale gold, pink would of course be ‘or­ri­ble with Gin­ny’s ‘air!”

“Ah, Har­ry!” said Mrs. Weasley loud­ly, cut­ting across Fleur’s mono­logue. “Good, I want­ed to ex­plain about the se­cu­ri­ty ar­range­ments for the jour­ney to Hog­warts to­mor­row. We’ve got Min­istry cars again, and there will be Au­rors wait­ing at the sta­tion.”

“Is Tonks go­ing to be there?” asked Har­ry, hand­ing over his Quid­ditch things.

“No, I don’t think so, she’s been sta­tioned some­where else from what Arthur said.”

“She has let ‘er­self go, zat Tonks,” Fleur mused, ex­am­in­ing her own stun­ning re­flec­tion in the back of a tea­spoon. “A big mis­take if you ask.”

“Yes, thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley tart­ly, cut­ting across Fleur again. “You’d bet­ter get on, Har­ry, I want the trunks ready tonight, if pos­si­ble, so we don’t have the usu­al last­minute scram­ble.”

And in fact, their de­par­ture the fol­low­ing morn­ing was smoother than usu­al. The Min­istry cars glid­ed up to the front of the Bur­row to find them wait­ing, trunks packed; Hermione’s cat, Crook­shanks, safe­ly en­closed in his trav­el­ing bas­ket; and Hed­wig; Ron’s owl, Pig­wid­geon; and Gin­ny’s new pur­ple Pygmy Puff, Arnold, in cages.

“Au revoir, ‘Any,” said Fleur throat­ily, kiss­ing him good­bye. Ron hur­ried for­ward, look­ing hope­ful, but Gin­ny stuck out her foot and Ron fell, sprawl­ing in the dust at Fleur’s feet. Fu­ri­ous, red­faced, and dirtspat­tered, he hur­ried in­to the car with­out say­ing good­bye.

There was no cheer­ful Ha­grid wait­ing for them at King’s Cross Sta­tion. In­stead, two grim­faced, beard­ed Au­rors in dark Mug­gle suits moved for­ward the mo­ment the cars stopped and, flank­ing the par­ty, marched them in­to the sta­tion with­out speak­ing.

“Quick, quick, through the bar­ri­er,” said Mrs. Weasley, who

seemed a lit­tle flus­tered by this aus­tere ef­fi­cien­cy. “Har­ry had bet­ter go first, with…”

She looked in­quir­ing­ly at one of the Au­rors, who nod­ded briefly, seized Har­ry’s up­per arm, and at­tempt­ed to steer him to­ward the bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten.

“I can walk, thanks,” said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly, jerk­ing his arm out of the Au­ror’s grip. He pushed his trol­ley di­rect­ly at the sol­id bar­ri­er, ig­nor­ing his silent com­pan­ion, and found him­self, a sec­ond lat­er, stand­ing on plat­form nine and three­quar­ters, where the scar­let Hog­warts Ex­press stood belch­ing steam over the crowd.

Hermione and the Weasleys joined him with­in sec­onds. With­out wait­ing to con­sult his grim­faced Au­ror, Har­ry mo­tioned to Ron and Hermione to fol­low him up the plat­form, look­ing for an emp­ty com­part­ment.

“We can’t, Har­ry,” said Hermione, look­ing apo­lo­get­ic. “Ron and I’ve got to go to the pre­fects’ car­riage first and then pa­trol the cor­ri­dors for a bit.”

“Oh yeah, I for­got,” said Har­ry.

“You’d bet­ter get straight on the train, all of you, you’ve on­ly got a few min­utes to go,” said Mrs. Weasley, con­sult­ing her watch. “Well, have a love­ly term, Ron…”

“Mr. Weasley, can I have a quick word?” said Har­ry, mak­ing up his mind on the spur of the mo­ment.

“Of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked slight­ly sur­prised, but fol­lowed Har­ry out of earshot of the oth­ers nev­er­the­less.

Har­ry had thought it through care­ful­ly and come to the con­clu­sion that, if he was to tell any­one, Mr. Weasley was the right per­son; first­ly, be­cause he worked at the Min­istry and was there­fore in the best po­si­tion to make fur­ther in­ves­ti­ga­tions, and sec­ond­ly,

be­cause he thought that there was not too much risk of Mr. Weasley ex­plod­ing with anger.

He could see Mrs. Weasley and the grim­faced Au­ror cast­ing the pair of them sus­pi­cious looks as they moved away.

“When we were in Di­agon Al­ley,” Har­ry be­gan, but Mr. Weasley fore­stalled him with a gri­mace.

“Am I about to dis­cov­er where you, Ron, and Hermione dis­ap­peared to while you were sup­posed to be in the back room of Fred and George’s shop?”

“How did you…?”

“Har­ry, please. You’re talk­ing to the man who raised Fred and George.”

“Er… yeah, all right, we weren’t in the back room.” “Very well, then, let’s hear the worst.”

“Well, we fol­lowed Dra­co Mal­foy. We used my In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.”

“Did you have any par­tic­ular rea­son for do­ing so, or was it a mere whim?”

“Be­cause I thought Mal­foy was up to some­thing,” said Har­ry, dis­re­gard­ing Mr. Weasley’s look of min­gled ex­as­per­ation and amuse­ment. “He’d giv­en his moth­er the slip and I want­ed to know why.”

“Of course you did,” said Mr. Weasley, sound­ing re­signed. “Well? Did you find out why?”

“He went in­to Bor­gin and Burkes,” said Har­ry, “and start­ed bul­ly­ing the bloke in there, Bor­gin, to help him fix some­thing. And he said he want­ed Bor­gin to keep some­thing else for him. He made it sound like it was the same kind of thing that need­ed fix­ing. Like they were a pair. And…”

Har­ry took a deep breath.

“There’s some­thing else. We saw Mal­foy jump about a mile when Madam Malkin tried to touch his left arm. I think he’s been brand­ed with the Dark Mark. 1 think he’s re­placed his fa­ther as a Death Eater.”

Mr. Weasley looked tak­en aback. Af­ter a mo­ment he said, “Har­ry, I doubt whether YouKnowWho would al­low a six­teenyearold…”

“Does any­one re­al­ly know what YouKnowWho would or wouldn’t do?” asked Har­ry an­gri­ly. “Mr. Weasley, I’m sor­ry, but isn’t it worth in­ves­ti­gat­ing? If Mal­foy wants some­thing fix­ing, and he needs to threat­en Bor­gin to get it done, it’s prob­ably some­thing Dark or dan­ger­ous, isn’t it?”

“I doubt it, to be hon­est, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley slow­ly. “You see, when Lu­cius Mal­foy was ar­rest­ed, we raid­ed his house. We took away ev­ery­thing that might have been dan­ger­ous.” “I think you missed some­thing,” said Har­ry stub­born­ly. “Well, maybe,” said Mr. Weasley, but Har­ry could tell that Mr. Weasley was hu­mor­ing him.

There was a whis­tle be­hind them; near­ly ev­ery­one had board­ed the train and the doors were clos­ing.

“You’d bet­ter hur­ry!’ said Mr. Weasley, as Mrs. Weasley cried, “Har­ry, quick­ly!”

He hur­ried for­ward and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley helped him load his trunk on­to the train.

“Now, dear, you’re com­ing to us for Christ­mas, it’s all fixed with Dum­ble­dore, so we’ll see you quite soon,” said Mrs. Weasley through the win­dow, as Har­ry slammed the door shut be­hind him and the train be­gan to move. “You make sure you look af­ter your­self and…”

The train was gath­er­ing speed.

“…be good and…” , She was jog­ging to keep up now.

“…stay safe!”

Har­ry waved un­til the train had turned a cor­ner and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were lost to view, then turned to see where the oth­ers had got to. He sup­posed Ron and Hermione were clois­tered in the pre­fects’ car­riage, but Gin­ny was a lit­tle way along the cor­ri­dor, chat­ting to some friends. He made his way to­ward her, drag­ging his trunk.

Peo­ple stared shame­less­ly as he ap­proached. They even pressed their faces against the win­dows of their com­part­ments to get a look at him. He had ex­pect­ed an up­swing in the amount of gap­ing and gaw­ping he would have to en­dure this term af­ter all the “Cho­sen One” ru­mors in the Dai­ly Prophet, but he did not en­joy the sen­sa­tion of stand­ing in a very bright spot­light. He tapped Gin­ny on the shoul­der.

“Fan­cy try­ing to find a com­part­ment?”

“I can’t, Har­ry, I said I’d meet Dean,” said Gin­ny bright­ly. “See you lat­er.”

“Right,” said Har­ry. He felt a strange twinge of an­noy­an­ce as she walked away, her long red hair danc­ing be­hind her; he had be­come so used to her pres­ence over the sum­mer that he had al­most for­got­ten that Gin­ny did not hang around with him, Ron, and Hermione while at school. Then he blinked and looked around: He was sur­round­ed by mes­mer­ized girls.

“Hi, Har­ry!” said a fa­mil­iar voice from be­hind him.

“Neville!” said Har­ry in re­lief, turn­ing to see a round­faced boy strug­gling to­ward him.

“Hel­lo, Har­ry,” said a girl with long hair and large misty eyes, who was just be­hind Neville.

“Lu­na, hi, how are you?”

“Very well, thank you,” said Lu­na. She was clutch­ing a mag­azine to her chest; large let­ters on the front an­nounced that there was a pair of free Spec­tre­specs in­side.

“Quib­bler still go­ing strong, then?” asked Har­ry, who felt a cer­tain fond­ness for the mag­azine, hav­ing giv­en it an ex­clu­sive in­ter­view the pre­vi­ous year.

“Oh yes, cir­cu­la­tion’s well up,” said Lu­na hap­pi­ly.

“Let’s find seats,” said Har­ry, and the three of them set off along the train through hordes of silent­ly star­ing stu­dents. At last they found an emp­ty com­part­ment, and Har­ry hur­ried in­side grate­ful­ly.

“They’re even star­ing at us? said Neville, in­di­cat­ing him­self and Lu­na. “Be­cause we’re with you!”

“They’re star­ing at you be­cause you were at the Min­istry too,” said Har­ry, as he hoist­ed his trunk in­to the lug­gage rack. “Our lit­tle ad­ven­ture there was all over the Dai­ly Prophet, you must’ve

seen it.”

“Yes, I thought Gran would be an­gry about all the pub­lic­ity,” said Neville, “but she was re­al­ly pleased. Says I’m start­ing to live up to my dad at long last. She bought me a new wand, look!”

He pulled it out and showed it to Har­ry.

“Cher­ry and uni­corn hair,” he said proud­ly. “We think it was one of the last Ol­li­van­der ev­er sold, he van­ished next day … oi, come back here, Trevor!”

And he dived un­der the seat to re­trieve his toad as it made one of its fre­quent bids for free­dom.

“Are we still do­ing D.A. meet­in­gs this year, Har­ry?” asked Lu­na,

who was de­tach­ing a pair of psychedel­ic spec­ta­cles from the mid­dle of The Quib­bler.

“No point now we’ve got rid of Um­bridge, is there?” said Har­ry, sit­ting down. Neville bumped his head against the seat as he emerged from un­der it. He looked most dis­ap­point­ed.

“I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!”

“I en­joyed the meet­in­gs too,” said Lu­na serene­ly. “It was like hav­ing friends.”

This was one of those un­com­fort­able things Lu­na of­ten said and which made Har­ry feel a squirm­ing mix­ture of pity and em­bar­rass­ment. Be­fore he could re­spond, how­ev­er, there was a dis­tur­bance out­side their com­part­ment door; a group of fourthyear girls was whis­per­ing and gig­gling to­geth­er on the oth­er side of the glass.

“You ask him!”

No, you!

“I’ll do it!”

And one of them, a bold­look­ing girl with large dark eyes, a pro­mi­nent chin, and long black hair pushed her way through the door.

“Hi, Har­ry, I’m Romil­da, Romil­da Vane,” she said loud­ly and con­fi­dent­ly. “Why don’t you join us in our com­part­ment? You don’t have to sit with them,” she added in a stage whis­per, in­di­cat­ing Neville’s bot­tom, which was stick­ing out from un­der the seat again as he groped around for Trevor, and Lu­na, who was now wear­ing her free Spec­tre­specs, which gave her the look of a de­ment­ed, mul­ti­col­ored owl.

“They’re friends of mine,” said Har­ry cold­ly.

“Oh,” said the girl, look­ing very sur­prised. “Oh. Okay.”

And she with­drew, slid­ing the door closed be­hind her.

“Peo­ple ex­pect you 10 have cool­er friends than us,” said Lu­na, once again dis­play­ing her knack for em­bar­rass­ing hon­es­ty.

“You are cool,” said Har­ry short­ly. “None of them was at the Min­istry. They didn’t fight with me.”

“That’s a very nice thing to say,” beamed Lu­na. Then she pushed her Spec­tre­specs far­ther up her nose and set­tled down to read The

Quib­bler.

“We didn’t face him, though,” said Neville, emerg­ing from un­der the seat with fluff and dust in his hair and a re­signed­look­ing Trevor in his hand. “You did. You should hear my gran talk about you. ‘That Har­ry Pot­ter’s got more back­bone than the whole Min­istry of Mag­ic put to­geth­er!’ She’d give any­thing to have you as a grand­son…

Har­ry laughed un­com­fort­ably and changed the sub­ject to OWL. re­sults as soon as he could. While Neville re­cit­ed his grades and won­dered aloud whether he would be al­lowed to take a Trans­fig­ura­tion NEWT, with on­ly an “Ac­cept­able,” Har­ry watched him with­out re­al­ly lis­ten­ing.

Neville’s child­hood had been blight­ed by Volde­mort just as much as Har­ry’s had, but Neville had no idea how close he had come to hav­ing Har­ry’s des­tiny. The prophe­cy could have re­ferred to ei­ther of them, yet, for his own in­scrutable rea­sons, Volde­mort had cho­sen to be­lieve that Har­ry was the one meant.

Had Volde­mort cho­sen Neville, it would be Neville sit­ting op­po­site Har­ry bear­ing the light­ning­shaped scar and the weight of the prophe­cy… Or would it? Would Neville’s moth­er have died to save him, as Lily had died for Har­ry? Sure­ly she would… But what if she had been un­able to stand be­tween her son and Volde­mort? Would there then have been no “Cho­sen One” at all? An emp­ty seat where Neville now sat and a scar­less Har­ry who would have been kissed good­bye by his own moth­er, not Ron’s?

“You all right, Har­ry? You look fun­ny,” said Neville.

Har­ry start­ed. “Sor­ry … I …”

“Wrack­spurt got you?” asked Lu­na sym­pa­thet­ical­ly, peer­ing at Har­ry through her enor­mous col­ored spec­ta­cles.

“I… what?”

“A Wrack­spurt… They’re in­vis­ible. They float in through your ears and make your brain go fuzzy,” she said. “I thought I felt one zoom­ing around in here.”

She flapped her hands at thin air, as though beat­ing off large in­vis­ible moths. Har­ry and Neville caught each oth­er’s eyes and hasti­ly be­gan to talk of Quid­ditch.

The weath­er be­yond the train win­dows was as patchy as it had been all sum­mer; they passed through stretch­es of the chill­ing mist, then out in­to weak, clear sun­light. It was dur­ing one of the clear spells, when the sun was vis­ible al­most di­rect­ly over­head, that Ron and Hermione en­tered the com­part­ment at last.

“Wish the lunch trol­ley would hur­ry up, I’m starv­ing,” said Ron long­ing­ly, slump­ing in­to the seat be­side Har­ry and rub­bing his stom­ach. “Hi, Neville. Hi, Lu­na. Guess what?” he added, turn­ing to Har­ry. “Mal­foy s not do­ing pre­fect du­ty. He’s just sit­ting in his com­part­ment with the oth­er Slytherins, we saw him when we passed.”

Har­ry sat up straight, in­ter­est­ed. It was not like Mal­foy to pass up the chance to de­mon­strate his pow­er as pre­fect, which he had hap­pi­ly abused all the pre­vi­ous year.

“What did he do when he saw you?”

“The usu­al,” said Ron in­dif­fer­ent­ly, de­mon­strat­ing a rude hand

ges­ture. “Not like him, though, is it? Well… that is” — he did the hand ges­ture again — “but why isn’t he out there bul­ly­ing first years?

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry, but his mind was rac­ing. Didn’t this look as though Mal­foy had more im­por­tant things on his mind than bul­ly­ing younger stu­dents?

“Maybe he pre­ferred the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad,” said Hermione. “Maybe be­ing a pre­fect seems a bit tame af­ter that.”

“I don’t think so,” said Har­ry. “I think he’s …”

But be­fore he could ex­pound on his the­ory, the com­part­ment door slid open again and a breath­less thirdyear girl stepped in­side.

“I’m sup­posed to de­liv­er these to Neville Long­bot­tom and Har­ry PPot­ter,” she fal­tered, as her eyes met Har­ry’s and she turned scar­let. She was hold­ing out two scrolls of parch­ment tied with vi­olet rib­bon. Per­plexed, Har­ry and Neville took the scroll ad­dressed to each of them and the girl stum­bled back out of the com­part­ment.

“What is it?” Ron de­mand­ed, as Har­ry un­rolled his.

“An in­vi­ta­tion,” said Har­ry.

Har­ry,

I would be de­light­ed if you would join me for a bite of lunch in com­part­ment C.

Sin­cere­ly, Ho­race

“But what does he want me for?” asked Neville ner­vous­ly, as though he was ex­pect­ing de­ten­tion.

“No idea,” said Har­ry, which was not en­tire­ly true, though he had no proof yet that his hunch was cor­rect. “Lis­ten,” he added, seized by a sud­den brain wave, “let’s go un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, then we might get a good look at Mal­foy on the way, see what he’s up to.”

This idea, how­ev­er, came to noth­ing: The cor­ri­dors, which were packed with peo­ple on the look­out for the lunch trol­ley, were im­pos­si­ble to ne­go­ti­ate while wear­ing the cloak. Har­ry stowed it re­gret­ful­ly back in his bag, re­flect­ing that it would have been nice to wear it just to avoid all the star­ing, which seemed to have in­creased in in­ten­si­ty even since he had last walked down the train. Ev­ery now and then, stu­dents would hur­tle out of their com­part­ments to get a bet­ter look at him. The ex­cep­tion was Cho Chang, who dart­ed in­to her com­part­ment when she saw Har­ry com­ing. As Har­ry passed the win­dow, he saw her deep in de­ter­mined con­ver­sa­tion with her friend Ma­ri­et­ta, who was wear­ing a very thick lay­er of make­up that did not en­tire­ly ob­scure the odd for­ma­tion of pim­ples still etched across her face. Smirk­ing slight­ly, Har­ry pushed on.

When they reached com­part­ment C, they saw at once that they were not Slughorn’s on­ly in­vi­tees, al­though judg­ing by the en­thu­si­asm of Slughorn’s wel­come, Har­ry was the most warm­ly an­tic­ipat­ed.

“Har­ry, m’boy!” said Slughorn, jump­ing up at the sight of him so that his great vel­vet­cov­ered bel­ly seemed to fill all the re­main­ing space in the com­part­ment. His shiny bald head and great sil­very mus­tache gleamed as bright­ly in the sun­light as the gold­en

but­tons on his waist­coat. “Good to see you, good to see you! And you must be Mr. Long­bot­tom!”

Neville nod­ded, look­ing scared. At a ges­ture from Slughorn, they sat down op­po­site each oth­er in the on­ly two emp­ty seats, which were near­est the door. Har­ry glanced around at their fel­low guests. He rec­og­nized a Slytherin from their year, a tall black boy with high cheek­bones and long, slant­ing eyes; there were al­so two sev­en­thyear boys Har­ry did not know and, squashed in the cor­ner be­side Slughorn and look­ing as though she was not en­tire­ly sure how she had got there, Gin­ny.

“Now, do you know ev­ery­one?” Slughorn asked Har­ry and Neville. “Blaise Zabi­ni is in your year, of course –“

Zabi­ni did not make any sign of recog­ni­tion or greet­ing, nor did Har­ry or Neville: Gryffind­or and Slytherin stu­dents loathed each oth­er on prin­ci­ple.

“This is Cor­mac McLaggen, per­haps you’ve come across each oth­er … ? No?”

McLaggen, a large, wiry­haired youth, raised a hand, and Har­ry and Neville nod­ded back at him.

“… and this is Mar­cus Bel­by, I don’t know whether …?”

Bel­by, who was thin and ner­vous­look­ing, gave a strained smile.

“… and this charm­ing young la­dy tells me she knows you!” Slughorn fin­ished.

Gin­ny gri­maced at Har­ry and Neville from be­hind Slughorn’s back.

“Well now, this is most pleas­ant,” said Slughorn co­zi­ly. “A chance to get to know you all a lit­tle bet­ter. Here, take a nap­kin. I’ve packed my own lunch; the trol­ley, as I re­mem­ber it, is heavy on

licorice wands, and a poor old man’s di­ges­tive sys­tem isn’t quite up to such things… Pheas­ant, Bel­by?”

Bel­by start­ed and ac­cept­ed what looked like half a cold pheas­ant.

“I was just telling young Mar­cus here that I had the plea­sure of teach­ing his Un­cle Damo­cles,” Slughorn told Har­ry and Neville, now pass­ing around a bas­ket of rolls. “Out­stand­ing wiz­ard, out­stand­ing, and his Or­der of Mer­lin most wellde­served. Do you see much of your un­cle, Mar­cus?”

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, Bei­by had just tak­en a large mouth­ful of pheas­ant; in his haste to an­swer Slughorn he sw­al­lowed too fast, turned pur­ple, and be­gan to choke.

“Anap­neo,” said Slughorn calm­ly, point­ing his wand at Bel­by, whose air­way seemed to clear at once.

“Not… not much of him, no,” gasped Bel­by, his eyes stream­ing.

“Well, of course, I dare­say he’s busy,” said Slughorn, look­ing ques­tion­ing­ly at Bel­by. “I doubt he in­vent­ed the Wolfs­bane Po­tion with­out con­sid­er­able hard work!”

“I sup­pose…” said Bel­by, who seemed afraid to take an­oth­er bite of pheas­ant un­til he was sure that Slughorn had fin­ished with him. “Er… he and my dad don’t get on very well, you see, so I don’t re­al­ly know much about…”

His voice tailed away as Slughorn gave him a cold smile and turned to McLaggen in­stead.

“Now, you, Cor­mac,” said Slughorn, “I hap­pen to know you see a lot of your Un­cle Tiberius, be­cause he has a rather splen­did pic­ture of the two of you hunt­ing nog­tails in, I think, Nor­folk?”

“Oh, yeah, that was fun, that was,” said McLaggen. “We went with Bertie Hig­gs and Ru­fus Scrim­geour; this was be­fore he be­came Min­is­ter, ob­vi­ous­ly …”

“Ah, you know Bertie and Ru­fus too?” beamed Slughorn, now of­fer­ing around a small tray of pies; some­how, Bel­by was missed out. “Now tell me…”

It was as Har­ry had sus­pect­ed. Ev­ery­one here seemed to have been in­vit­ed be­cause they were con­nect­ed to some­body well­known or in­flu­en­tial… ev­ery­one ex­cept Gin­ny. Zabi­ni, who was in­ter­ro­gat­ed af­ter McLaggen, turned out to have a fa­mous­ly beau­ti­ful witch for a moth­er (from what Har­ry could make out, she had been mar­ried sev­en times, each of her hus­bands dy­ing mys­te­ri­ous­ly and leav­ing her mounds of gold). It was Neville’s turn next: This was a very un­com­fort­able ten min­utes, for Neville’s par­ents, well­known Au­rors, had been tor­tured in­to in­san­ity by Bel­la­trix Lestrange and a cou­ple of Death Eater cronies. At the end of Neville’s in­ter­view, Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Slughorn was re­serv­ing judg­ment on Neville, yet to see whether he had any of his par­ents’ flair.

“And now,” said Slughorn, shift­ing mas­sive­ly in his seat with the air of a com­pere in­tro­duc­ing his star act. “Har­ry Pot­ter! Where to be­gin? I feel I bare­ly scratched the sur­face when we met over the sum­mer!” He con­tem­plat­ed Har­ry for a mo­ment as though he was a par­tic­ular­ly large and suc­cu­lent piece of pheas­ant, then said, “‘The Cho­sen One,’ they’re call­ing you now!”

Har­ry said noth­ing. Bel­by, McLaggen, and Zabi­ni were all star­ing at him.

“Of course,” said Slughorn, watch­ing Har­ry close­ly, “there have been ru­mors for years… I re­mem­ber when … well … af­ter that ter­ri­ble night … Lily … James … and you sur­vived … and the word was that you must have pow­ers be­yond the or­di­nary …”

Zabi­ni gave a tiny lit­tle cough that was clear­ly sup­posed to

in­di­cate amused skep­ti­cism. An an­gry voice burst out from be­hind Slughorn.

“Yeah, Zabi­ni, be­cause you’re so tal­ent­ed… at pos­ing…”

“Oh dear!” chuck­led Slughorn com­fort­ably, look­ing around at Gin­ny, who was glar­ing at Zabi­ni around Slughorn’s great bel­ly. “You want to be care­ful, Blaise! I saw this young la­dy per­form the most mar­velous Bat­Bo­gey Hex as I was pass­ing her car­riage! I wouldn’t cross her!”

Zabi­ni mere­ly looked con­temp­tu­ous.

“Any­way,” said Slughorn, turn­ing back to Har­ry. “Such ru­mors this sum­mer. Of course, one doesn’t know what to be­lieve, the Prophet has been known to print in­ac­cu­ra­cies, make mis­takes … but there seems lit­tle doubt, giv­en the num­ber of wit­ness­es, that there was quite a dis­tur­bance at the Min­istry and that you were there in the thick of it all!”

Har­ry, who could not see any way out of this with­out flat­ly ly­ing, nod­ded but still said noth­ing. Slughorn beamed at him.

“So mod­est, so mod­est, no won­der Dum­ble­dore is so fond … you were there, then? But the rest of the sto­ries … so sen­sa­tion­al, of course, one doesn’t know quite what to be­lieve … this fa­bled prophe­cy, for in­stance …”

“We nev­er heard a prophe­cy,” said Neville, turn­ing gera­ni­um pink as he said it.

“That’s right,” said Gin­ny staunch­ly. “Neville and I were both there too, and all this ‘Cho­sen One’ rub­bish is just the Prophet mak­ing things up as usu­al.”

“You were both there too, were you?” said Slughorn with great in­ter­est, look­ing from Gin­ny to Neville, but both of them sat clam­like be­fore his en­cour­ag­ing smile.

“Yes… well… it is true that the Prophet of­ten ex­ag­ger­ates, of course…” Slughorn said, sound­ing a lit­tle dis­ap­point­ed. “I re­mem­ber dear Gwenog telling me (Gwenog Jones, I mean, of course, Cap­tain of the Holy­head Harpies) …”

He me­an­dered off in­to a long­wind­ed rem­inis­cence, but Har­ry had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Slughorn had not fin­ished with him, and that he had not been con­vinced by Neville and Gin­ny.

The af­ter­noon wore on with more anec­dotes about il­lus­tri­ous wiz­ards Slughorn had taught, all of whom had been de­light­ed to join what he called the “Slug Club” at Hog­warts. Har­ry could not wait to leave, but couldn’t see how to do so po­lite­ly. Fi­nal­ly the train emerged from yet an­oth­er long misty stretch in­to a red sun­set, and Slughorn looked around, blink­ing in the twi­light.

“Good gra­cious, it’s get­ting dark al­ready! I didn’t no­tice that they’d lit the lamps! You’d bet­ter go and change in­to your robes, all of you. McLaggen, you must drop by and bor­row that book on nog­tails. Har­ry, Blaise … any time you’re pass­ing. Same goes for you, miss,” he twin­kled at Gin­ny. “Well, off you go, off you go!”

As he pushed past Har­ry in­to the dark­en­ing cor­ri­dor, Zabi­ni shot him a filthy look that Har­ry re­turned with in­ter­est. He, Gin­ny, and Neville fol­lowed Zabi­ni back along the train.

“I’m glad that’s over,” mut­tered Neville. “Strange man, isn’t he?” “Yeah, he is a bit,” said Har­ry, his eyes on Zabi­ni. “How come you end­ed up in there, Gin­ny?”

“He saw me hex Zacharias Smith,” said Gin­ny. “You re­mem­ber that id­iot from Huf­flepuff who was in the D.A.? He kept on and on ask­ing about what hap­pened at the Min­istry and in the end he an­noyed me so much I hexed him … when Slughorn came in I thought I was go­ing to got de­ten­tion, but he just thought it was ;i re­al­ly good hex and in­vit­ed me to lunch! Mad, eh?”

“Bet­ter rea­son for in­vit­ing some­one than be­cause their moth­er’s fa­mous,” said Har­ry, scowl­ing at the back of Zabi­ni’s head, “or be­cause their un­cle…”

But he broke off. An idea had just oc­curred to him, a reck­less but po­ten­tial­ly won­der­ful idea… In a minute’s time, Zabi­ni was go­ing to reen­ter the Slytherin six­thyear com­part­ment and Mal­foy would be sit­ting there, think­ing him­self un­heard by any­body ex­cept fel­low Slytherins… If Har­ry could on­ly en­ter, un­seen, be­hind him, what might he not see or hear? True, there was lit­tle of the jour­ney left … Hogsmeade Sta­tion had to be less than half an hour away, judg­ing by the wild­ness of the scenery flash­ing by the win­dows … but no­body else seemed pre­pared to take Har­ry’s sus­pi­cions se­ri­ous­ly, so it was down to him to prove them.

“I’ll see you two lat­er,” said Har­ry un­der his breath, pulling out his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and fling­ing it over him­self.

“But what’re you … ?” asked Neville.

“Lat­er!” whis­pered Har­ry, dart­ing af­ter Zabi­ni as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, though the rat­tling of the train made such cau­tion al­most point­less.

The cor­ri­dors were al­most com­plete­ly emp­ty now. Near­ly ev­ery­one had re­turned to their car­riages to change in­to their school robes and pack up their pos­ses­sions. Though he was as close as he could get to Zabi­ni with­out touch­ing him, Har­ry was not quick enough to slip in­to the com­part­ment when Zabi­ni opened the door. Zabi­ni was al­ready slid­ing it shut when Har­ry hasti­ly stuck out his foot to pre­vent it clos­ing.

“What’s wrong with this thing?” said Zabi­ni an­gri­ly as he smashed the slid­ing door re­peat­ed­ly in­to Har­ry’s foot.

Har­ry seized the door and pushed it open, hard; Zabi­ni, still cling­ing on to the han­dle, top­pled over side­ways in­to Gre­go­ry Goyle’s lap, and in the en­su­ing ruckus, Har­ry dart­ed in­to the com­part­ment, leapt on­to Zabi­ni’s tem­po­rar­ily emp­ty seat, and hoist­ed him­self up in­to the lug­gage rack. It was for­tu­nate that Goyle and Zabi­ni were snarling at each oth­er, draw­ing all eyes on­to them, for Har­ry was quite sure his feet and an­kles had been re­vealed as the cloak had flapped around them; in­deed, for one hor­ri­ble mo­ment he thought he saw Mal­foy’s eyes fol­low his train­er as it whipped up­ward out of sight. But then Goyle slammed the door shut and flung Zabi­ni off him; Zabi­ni col­lapsed in­to his own seat look­ing ruf­fled, Vin­cent Crabbe re­turned to his com­ic, and Mal­foy, snig­ger­ing, lay back down across two seats with his head in Pan­sy Parkin­sons lap. Har­ry lay curled un­com­fort­ably un­der the cloak to en­sure that ev­ery inch of him re­mained hid­den, and watched Pan­sy stroke the sleek blond hair off Mal­foy’s fore­head, smirk­ing as she did so, as though any­one would have loved to have been in her place. The lanterns swing­ing from the car­riage ceil­ing cast a bright light over the scene: Har­ry could read ev­ery word of Crabbe’s com­ic di­rect­ly

be­low him.

“So, Zabi­ni,” said Mal­foy, “what did Slughorn want?”

“Just try­ing to make up to well­con­nect­ed peo­ple,” said Zabi­ni,

who was still glow­er­ing at Goyle. “Not that he man­aged to find

many.”

This in­for­ma­tion did not seem to please Mal­foy. “Who else had he in­vit­ed?” he de­mand­ed.

“McLaggen from Gryffind­or,” said Zabi­ni.

“Oh yeah, his un­cle’s big in the Min­istry,” said Mal­foy.

“… some­one else called Bel­by, from Raven­claw …”

“Not him, he’s a prat!” said Pan­sy.

“… and Long­bot­tom, Pot­ter, and that Weasley girl,” fin­ished Zabi­ni.

Mal­foy sat up very sud­den­ly, knock­ing Pan­sy’s hand aside.

“He in­vit­ed Long­bot­tom?.”

“Well, I as­sume so, as Long­bot­tom was there,” said Zabi­ni in­dif­fer­ent­ly.

“What’s Long­bot­tom got to in­ter­est Slughorn?”

Zabi­ni shrugged.

“Pot­ter, pre­cious Pot­ter, ob­vi­ous­ly he want­ed a look at ‘the Cho­sen One,’” sneered Mal­foy, “but that Weasley girl! What’s so spe­cial about her?”

“A lot of boys like her,” said Pan­sy, watch­ing Mal­foy out of the cor­ner of her eyes for his re­ac­tion. “Even you think she’s good­look­ing, don’t you, Blaise, and we all know how hard you are to please!

“I wouldn’t touch a filthy lit­tle blood traitor like her what­ev­er she looked like,” said Zabi­ni cold­ly, and Pan­sy looked pleased. Mal­foy sank back across her lap and al­lowed her to re­sume the stroking of his hair.

“Well, I pity Slughorn’s taste. Maybe he’s go­ing a bit se­nile. Shame, my fa­ther al­ways said he was a good wiz­ard in his day. My fa­ther used to be a bit of a fa­vorite of his. Slughorn prob­ably hasn’t heard I’m on the train, or…”

“I wouldn’t bank on an in­vi­ta­tion,” said Zabi­ni. “He asked me about Notts fa­ther when I first ar­rived. They used to be old

friends, ap­par­ent­ly, but when he heard he’d been caught at the Min­istry he didn’t look hap­py, and Nott didn’t get an in­vi­ta­tion, did he? 1 don’t think Slughorn’s in­ter­est­ed in Death Eaters.”

Mal­foy looked an­gry, but forced out a sin­gu­lar­ly hu­mor­less laugh.

“Well, who cares what he’s in­ter­est­ed in? What is he, when you come down to it? Just some stupid teach­er.” Mal­foy yawned os­ten­ta­tious­ly. “I mean, I might not even be at Hog­warts next year, what’s it mat­ter to me if some fat old has­been likes me or not?”

“What do you mean, you might not be at Hog­warts next year?” said Pan­sy in­dig­nant­ly, ceas­ing groom­ing Mal­foy at once.

“Well, you nev­er know,” said Mal­foy with the ghost of a smirk. “I might have … er … moved on to big­ger and bet­ter things.”

Crouched in the lug­gage rack un­der his cloak, Har­ry’s heart be­gan to race. What would Ron and Hermione say about this? Crabbe and Goyle were gaw­ping at Mal­foy; ap­par­ent­ly they had had no inkling of any plans to move on to big­ger and bet­ter things. Even Zabi­ni had al­lowed a look of cu­rios­ity to mar his haughty fea­tures. Pan­sy re­sumed the slow stroking of Mal­foy s hair, look­ing dumb­found­ed.

“Do you mean…”

Mal­foy shrugged.

“Moth­er wants me to com­plete my ed­uca­tion, but per­son­al­ly, I don’t see it as that im­por­tant these days. I mean, think about it… When the Dark Lord takes over, is he go­ing to care how many OWLs or N.E.W.T.S any­one’s got? Of course he isn’t. It’ll be all about the kind of ser­vice he re­ceived, the lev­el of de­vo­tion he was shown.”

“And you think you’ll be able to do some­thing for him?” asked

Zabi­ni scathing­ly. “Six­teen years old and noi even ful­ly qual­ified yet?”

“I’ve just said, haven’t I? Maybe he doesn’t care if I’m qual­ified. Maybe the job he wants me to do isn’t some­thing that you need to be qual­ified for,” said Mal­foy qui­et­ly.

Crabbe and Goyle were both sit­ting with their mouths open like gar­goyles. Pan­sy was gaz­ing down at Mal­foy as though she had nev­er seen any­thing so awein­spir­ing.

“I can see Hog­warts,” said Mal­foy, clear­ly rel­ish­ing the ef­fect he had cre­at­ed as he point­ed out of the black­ened win­dow. “We’d bet­ter get our robes on.”

Har­ry was so busy star­ing at Mal­foy, he did not no­tice Goyle reach­ing up for his trunk; as he swung it down, it hit Har­ry hard on the side of the head. He let out an in­vol­un­tary gasp of pain, and Mal­foy looked up at the lug­gage rack, frown­ing.

Har­ry was not afraid of Mal­foy, but he still did not much like the idea of be­ing dis­cov­ered hid­ing un­der his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak by a group of un­friend­ly Slytherins. Eyes still wa­ter­ing and head still throb­bing, he drew his wand, care­ful not to dis­ar­range the cloak, and wait­ed, breath held. To his re­lief, Mal­foy seemed to de­cide that he had imag­in­ed the noise; he pulled on his robes like the oth­ers, locked his trunk, and as the train slowed to a jerky crawl, fas­tened a thick new trav­el­ing cloak round his neck.

Har­ry could see the cor­ri­dors fill­ing up again and hoped that Hermione and Ron would take his things out on­to the plat­form for him; he was stuck where he was un­til the com­part­ment had quite emp­tied. At last, with a fi­nal lurch, the train came to a com­plete halt. Goyle threw the door open and mus­cled his way out

in­to a crowd of sec­ond years, punch­ing them aside; Crabbe and Zabi­ni fol­lowed.

“You go on,” Mal­foy told Pan­sy, who was wait­ing for him with her hand held out as though hop­ing he would hold it. “I just want to check some­thing.”

Pan­sy left. Now Har­ry and Mal­foy were alone in the com­part­ment. Peo­ple were fil­ing past, de­scend­ing on­to the dark plat­form. Mal­foy moved over to the com­part­ment door and let down the blinds, so that peo­ple in the cor­ri­dor be­yond could not peer in. He then bent down over his trunk and opened it again.

Har­ry peered down over the edge of the lug­gage rack, his heart pump­ing a lit­tle faster. What had Mal­foy want­ed to hide from Pan­sy? Was he about to see the mys­te­ri­ous bro­ken ob­ject it was so im­por­tant to mend?

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!”

With­out warn­ing, Mal­foy point­ed his wand at Har­ry, who was in­stant­ly par­alyzed. As though in slow mo­tion, he top­pled out of the lug­gage rack and fell, with an ag­oniz­ing, floor­shak­ing crash, at Mal­foy’s feet, the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak trapped be­neath him, his whole body re­vealed with his legs still curled ab­surd­ly in­to the cramped kneel­ing po­si­tion. He couldn’t move a mus­cle; he could on­ly gaze up at Mal­foy, who smiled broad­ly.

“I thought so,” he said ju­bi­lant­ly. “I heard Goyle’s trunk hit you. And I thought I saw some­thing white flash through the air af­ter Zabi­ni came back…”

His eyes lin­gered for a mo­ment up­on Har­ry’s train­ers.

“You didn’t hear any­thing I care about, Pot­ter. But while I’ve got you here…”

And he stamped, hard, on Har­ry’s face. Har­ry felt his nose break; blood spurt­ed ev­ery­where.

“That’s from my fa­ther. Now, let’s see…”

Mal­foy dragged the cloak out from un­der Har­ry’s im­mo­bi­lized body and threw it over him.

“I don’t reck­on they’ll find you till the trains back in Lon­don,” he said qui­et­ly. “See you around, Pot­ter… or not.”

And tak­ing care to tread on Har­ry’s fin­gers, Mal­foy left the com­part­ment.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 8 — Victorious Snape


Har­ry could not move a mus­cle. He lay there be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak feel­ing the blood from his nose flow, hot and wet, over his face, lis­ten­ing to the voic­es and foot­steps in the cor­ri­dor be­yond. His im­me­di­ate thought was that some­one would, sure­ly check the com­part­ments be­fore the train de­part­ed again. But at once came the dispir­it­ing re­al­iza­tion that even if some­body looked in­to the com­part­ment, he would be nei­ther seen nor heard. His best hope was that some­body else would walk in and step on him.

Har­ry had nev­er hat­ed Mal­foy more than as he lay there, like an ab­surd tur­tle on its back, blood drip­ping sick­en­ing­ly in­to his open mouth. What a stupid sit­ua­tion to have land­ed him­self in… and now the last few foot­steps were dy­ing away; ev­ery­one was shuf­fling along the dark plat­form out­side; he could hear the scrap­ing of trunks and loud bab­ble of talk.

Ron and Hermione would think that he had left the train with­out them. Once they ar­rived at Hog­warts and took their places in the Great Hall, looked up and down the Gryffind­or ta­ble a few times, and fi­nal­ly re­al­ized that he was not there, he, no doubt, would be halfway back to Lon­don.

He tried to make a sound, even a grunt, but it was im­pos­si­ble. Then he re­mem­bered that some wiz­ards, like Dum­ble­dore, could per­form spells with­out speak­ing, so he tried to sum­mon his wand, which had fall­en out of his hand, by say­ing the words “Ac­cio Wand!” over and over again in his head, but noth­ing hap­pened.

He thought he could hear the rustling of the trees that sur­round­ed the lake, and the faroff hoot of an owl, but no hint of a search be­ing made or even (he de­spised him­self slight­ly for hop­ing it) pan­icked voic­es won­der­ing where Har­ry Pot­ter had gone. A feel­ing of hope­less­ness spread through him as he imag­in­ed the con­voy of thes­tral­drawn car­riages trundling up to the school and the muf­fled yells of laugh­ter is­su­ing from whichev­er car­riage Mal­foy was rid­ing in, where he could be re­count­ing his at­tack on Har­ry to Crabbe, Goyle, Zabi­ni, and Pan­sy Parkin­son.

The train lurched, caus­ing Har­ry to roll over on­to his side. Now he was star­ing at the dusty un­der­side of the seats in­stead of the ceil­ing. The floor be­gan to vi­brate as the en­gine roared in­to life. The Ex­press was leav­ing and no­body knew he was still on it…

Then he felt his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak fly off him and a voice over­head said, “Wotch­er, Har­ry.”

There was a flash of red light and Har­ry’s body un­froze; he was able to push him­self in­to a more dig­ni­fied sit­ting po­si­tion, hasti­ly wipe the blood off his bruised race with the back of his hand, and raise his head to look up at Tonks, who was hold­ing the In­vis­ibili­iy Cloak she had just pulled away.

We’d bet­ter get out of here, quick­ly,” she said, as the train win­dows be­came ob­scured with steam and they be­gan to move out of the sta­tion. “Come on, we’ll jump.”

Har­ry hur­ried af­ter her in­to the cor­ri­dor. She pulled open the train door and leapt on­to the plat­form, which seemed to be slid­ing un­der­neath them as the train gath­ered mo­men­tum. He fol­lowed her, stag­gered a lit­tle on land­ing, then straight­ened up in time to see the gleam­ing scar­let steam en­gine pick up speed, round the cor­ner, and dis­ap­pear from view.

The cold night air was sooth­ing on his throb­bing nose. Tonks was look­ing at him; he felt an­gry and em­bar­rassed that he had been dis­cov­ered in such a ridicu­lous po­si­tion. Silent­ly she hand­ed him back the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“Who did it?”

“Dra­co Mal­foy,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Thanks for… well…”

“No prob­lem,” said Tonks, with­out smil­ing. From what Har­ry could see in the dark­ness, she was as mousy­haired and mis­er­ablelookin­ng as she had been when he had met her at the Bur­row. “I can fix your nose if you stand still.”

Har­ry did not think much of this idea; he had been in­tend­ing to vis­it Madam Pom­frey, the ma­tron, in whom he had a lit­tle more con­fi­dence when it came to Heal­ing Spells, but it seemed rude to say this, so he stayed stock­still and closed his eyes,

“Episkey” said Tonks.

Har­ry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold. He raised a hand and felt gin­ger­ly. It seemed to be mend­ed.

“Thanks a lot!”

“You’d bet­ter put that cloak back on, and we can walk up to the school,” said Tonks, still un­smil­ing. As Har­ry swung the cloak back over him­self, she waved her wand; an im­mense sil­very four­legged crea­ture erupt­ed from it and streaked off in­to the dark­ness.

”Was that a Pa­tronus?” asked Har­ry, who had seen Dum­ble­dore send mes­sages like this.

“Yes, I’m send­ing word to the cas­tle that I’ve got you or they’ll wor­ry. Come on, we’d bet­ter not daw­dle.”

They set off to­ward the lane that led to the school.

“How did you find me?”

“I no­ticed you hadn’t left the train and I knew you had that cloak. I thought you might be hid­ing for some rea­son. When I saw the blinds were drawn down on that com­part­ment I thought I’d check.”

“But what are you do­ing here, any­way?” Har­ry asked.

“I’m sta­tioned in Hogsmeade now, to give the school ex­tra pro­tec­tion,” said Tonks.

“Is it just you who’s sta­tioned up here, or — ?”

“No, Proud­foot, Sav­age, and Dawlish are here too.”

“Dawlish, that Au­ror Dum­ble­dore at­tacked last year?”

“That’s right.”

They trudged up the dark, de­sert­ed lane, fol­low­ing the fresh­ly made car­riage tracks. Har­ry looked side­ways at Tonks un­der his cloak. Last year she had been in­quis­itive (to the point of be­ing a lit­tle an­noy­ing at times), she had laughed eas­ily, she had made jokes. Now she seemed old­er and much more se­ri­ous and pur­pose­ful. Was this all the ef­fect of what had hap­pened at the Min­istry? He re­flect­ed un­com­fort­ably that Hermione would have sug­gest­ed he say some­thing con­sol­ing about Sir­ius to her, that it hadn’t been her fault at all, but he couldn’t bring him­self to do it. He was far from blam­ing her for Sir­ius’s death; it was no more her fault than any­one else’s (and much less than his), but he did not like talk­ing about Sir­ius if he could avoid it. And so they tramped on through the cold night in si­lence, Tonks’s long cloak whis­per­ing on the ground be­hind them.

Hav­ing al­ways trav­eled there by car­riage, Har­ry had nev­er be­fore ap­pre­ci­at­ed just how far Hog­warts was from Hogsmeade Sta­tion. With great re­lief he fi­nal­ly saw the tall pil­lars on ei­ther side of the gates, each topped with a winged boar. He was cold, he was hun­gry and he was quite keen to leave this new, gloomy Tonks be­hind. But when he put out a hand to push open the gates, he found them chained shut.

“Alo­ho­mo­ra!” he said con­fi­dent­ly, point­ing his wand at the pad­lock, but noth­ing hap­pened.

“That won’t work on these,” said Tonks. “Dum­ble­dore be­witched them him­self.”

Har­ry looked around, I could climb a wall,” he sug­gest­ed.

“No, you couldn’t,” said Tonks flat­ly. “An­ti­in­trud­er jinx­es on all of them. Se­cu­ri­ty’s been tight­ened a hun­dred­fold this sum­mer.”

“Well then,” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel an­noyed at her lack of help­ful­ness, “I sup­pose I’ll just have to sleep out here and wait for morn­ing.”

“Some­one’s com­ing down for you,” said Tonks, “Look.”

A lantern was bob­bing at the dis­tant foot of the cas­tle. Har­ry was so pleased to see it he felt he could even en­dure Filch’s wheezy crit­icisms of his tar­di­ness and rants about how his time­keep­ing would im­prove with the reg­ular ap­pli­ca­tion of thumb­screws. It was not un­til the glow­ing yel­low light was ten feet away from them, and had pulled off his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak so that he could be seen, that he rec­og­nized, with a rush of pure loathing, the up­lit hooked nose and long, black, greasy hair of Severus Snape.

“Well, well, well,” sneered Snape, tak­ing out his wand and tap­ping the pad­lock once, so that the chains snaked back­ward and the gates creaked open. “Nice of you to turn up, Pot­ter, al­though you have ev­ident­ly de­cid­ed that the wear­ing of school robes would de­tract from your ap­pear­an­ce.”

“I couldn’t change, I didn’t have my —” Har­ry be­gan, but Snape cut across him.

“There is no need to wait, Nympha­do­ra, Pot­ter is quite — ah

— safe in my hands.”

“I meant Ha­grid to get the mes­sage,” said Tonks, frown­ing.

“Ha­grid was late for the startofterm feast, just like Pot­ter here, so I took it in­stead. And in­ci­den­tal­ly,” said Snape, stand­ing back to al­low Har­ry to pass him, “I was in­ter­est­ed to see your new Pa­tronus.”

He shut the gates in her face with a loud clang and tapped the chains with his wand again, so that they slith­ered, clink­ing, back in­to place.

“I think you were bet­ter off with the old one,” said Snape, the mal­ice in his voice un­mis­tak­able. “The new one looks weak.”

As Snape swung the lantern about, Har­ry saw, fleet­ing­ly, a look of shock and anger on Tonks’s face. Then she was cov­ered in dark­ness once more.

“Good night,” Har­ry called to her over his shoul­der, as he be­gan the walk up to the school with Snape. “Thanks for … ev­ery­thing,”

“See you, Har­ry.”

Snape did not speak for a minute or so. Har­ry felt as though his body was gen­er­at­ing waves of ha­tred so pow­er­ful that it seemed in­cred­ible that Snape could not feel them burn­ing him. He had loathed Snape from their first en­counter, but Snape had placed him­self for­ev­er and ir­re­vo­ca­bly be­yond the pos­si­bil­ity of Har­ry’s for­give­ness by his at­ti­tude to­ward Sir­ius. What­ev­er Dum­ble­dore said, Har­ry had had time to think over the sum­mer, and had con­clud­ed that Snape’s snide re­marks to Sir­ius about re­main­ing safe­ly hid­den while the rest of the Or­der of the Phoenix were off fight­ing Volde­mort had prob­ably been a pow­er­ful fac­tor in Sir­ius rush­ing off to the Min­istry the night that he had died. Har­ry clung to this no­tion, be­cause it en­abled him to blame Snape, which felt sat­is­fy­ing, and al­so be­cause he knew that if any­one was not sor­ry that Sir­ius was dead, it was the man now strid­ing next to him in the dark­ness.

“Fifty points from Gryffind­or for late­ness, I think,” said Snape. “And, let me see, an­oth­er twen­ty for your Mug­gle at­tire. You know, I don’t be­lieve any House has ev­er been in neg­ative fig­ures this ear­ly in the term: We haven’t even start­ed pud­ding. You might have set a record, Pot­ter.”

The fury and ha­tred bub­bling in­side Har­ry seemed to blaze white­hot, but he would rather have been im­mo­bi­lized all the way

back to Lon­don than tell Snape why he was late.

“I sup­pose you want­ed to make an en­trance, did you?” Snape con­tin­ued. “And with no fly­ing car avail­able you de­cid­ed that burst­ing in­to the Great Hall halfway through the feast ought to cre­ate a dra­mat­ic ef­fect.”

Still Har­ry re­mained silent, though he thought his chest might ex­plode. He knew that Snape had come to fetch him for this, for the few min­utes when he could nee­dle and tor­ment Har­ry with­out any­one else lis­ten­ing.

They reached the cas­tle steps at last and as the great oak­en front doors swung open in­to the vast flagged en­trance hall, a burst of talk and laugh­ter and of tin­kling plates and glass­es greet­ed them through the doors stand­ing open in­to the Great Hail. Har­ry won­dered whether he could slip his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back on, there­by gain­ing his seat at the long Gryffind­or ta­ble (which, in­con­ve­nient­ly, was the far­thest from the en­trance hall) with­out be­ing no­ticed. As though he had read Har­ry’s mind, how­ev­er, Snape said, “No cloak. You can walk in so that ev­ery­one sees you, which is what you want­ed, I’m sure.”

Har­ry turned on the spot and marched straight through the open doors: any­thing to get away from Snape. The Great Hall with its four long House ta­bles and its staff ta­ble set at the top of the room was dec­orat­ed as usu­al with float­ing can­dles that made the plates be­low glit­ter and glow. It was all a shim­mer­ing blur to Har­ry, how­ev­er, who walked so fast that he was pass­ing the Huf­flepuff ta­ble be­fore peo­ple re­al­ly start­ed to stare, and by the time they were stand­ing up to get a good look at him, he had spot­ted Ron and Hermione, sped along the bench­es to­ward them, and forced his way in be­tween them.

“Where’ve you — blimey, what’ve you done to your face?” said Ron, gog­gling at him along with ev­ery­one else in the vicin­ity. I

“Why, what’s wrong with it?” said Har­ry, grab­bing a spoon and squint­ing at his dis­tort­ed re­flec­tion.

“You’re cov­ered in blood!” said Hermione. “Come here —”

She raised her wand, said “Ter­geo!” and si­phoned off the dried blood.

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, feel­ing his now clean face. “How’s my nose look­ing?

“Nor­mal,” said Her­moine anx­ious­ly. “Why shouldn’t it? Har­ry, what hap­pened? We’ve been ter­ri­fied!”

“I’ll tell you lat­er,” said Har­ry curt­ly. He was very con­scious that Gin­ny, Neville, Dean, and Sea­mus were lis­ten­ing in; even Near­ly Head­less Nick, the Gryffind­or ghost, had come float­ing along the bench to eaves­drop.

“But —” said Hermione.

“Not now, Hermione,” said Har­ry, in a dark­ly sig­nif­icant voice. He hoped very much that they would all as­sume he had been in­volved in some­thing hero­ic, pre­fer­ably in­volv­ing a cou­ple of Death Eaters and a de­men­tor. Of course, Mal­foy would spread the sto­ry as wide as he could, but there was al­ways a chance it wouldn’t reach too many Gryffind­or ears.

He reached across Ron for a cou­ple of chick­en legs and a hand­ful of chips, but be­fore he could take them they van­ished, to be re­placed with pud­dings.

“You missed the Sort­ing, any­way,” said Hermione, as Ron dived for a large choco­late gateau.

“Hat say any­thing in­ter­est­ing?” asked Har­ry, tak­ing a piece of trea­cle tart.

“More of the same, re­al­ly . . . ad­vis­ing us all to unite in the face en­emies, you know.”

“Dum­ble­dore men­tioned Volde­mort at all?”

“Not yet, but he al­ways saves his prop­er speech for af­ter the the feast doesn’t he? It can’t be long now.”

“Snape said Ha­grid was late for the feast —”

“You’ve seen Snape? How come?” said Ron be­tween fren­zied mouth­fuls of gateau.

“Bumped in­to him,” said Har­ry eva­sive­ly.

“Ha­grid was on­ly a few min­utes late,” said Hermione. “Look, he’s wav­ing at you, Har­ry.”

Har­ry looked up at the staff ta­ble and grinned at Ha­grid, who was in­deed wav­ing at him. Ha­grid had nev­er quite man­aged to com­port him­self with the dig­ni­ty of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Head of Gryffind­or House, the top of whose head came up to some­where be­tween Ha­grid’s el­bow and shoul­der as they were sit­ting side by side, and who was look­ing dis­ap­prov­ing­ly at this en­thu­si­as­tic greet­ing. Har­ry was sur­prised to see the Div­ina­tion teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, sit­ting on Ha­grid’s oth­er side; she rarely left her tow­er room, and he had nev­er seen her at the startofterm feast be­fore. She looked as odd as ev­er, glit­ter­ing with beads and trail­ing shawls, her eyes mag­ni­fied to enor­mous size by her spec­ta­cles. Hav­ing al­ways con­sid­ered her a bit of a fraud, Har­ry had been shocked to dis­cov­er at the end of the pre­vi­ous term that it had been she who had made the pre­dic­tion that caused Lord Volde­mort to kill Har­ry’s par­ents and at­tack Har­ry him­self. The knowl­edge made him even less ea­ger to find him­self in her com­pa­ny, thank­ful­ly, this year he would be drop­ping Div­ina­tion. Her great bea­con­like eyes swiveled in his di­rec­tion; he hasti­ly looked away to­ward the Slytherin ta­ble. Dra­co Mal­foy was mim­ing the shat­terering of a nose to rau­cous laugh­ter and ap­plause. Har­ry dropped his gaze to his trea­cle tart, his in­sides burn­ing again. What he would give to fight Mal­foy oneonone…

“So what did Pro­fes­sor Slughorn want?” Hermione asked.

“To know what re­al­ly hap­pened at the Min­istry.” said Har­ry.

“Him and ev­ery­one else here,” sniffed Hermione. “Peo­ple were in­ter­ro­gat­ing us about it on the train, weren’t they, Ron?”

“Yeah,” said Ron. “All want­ing to know if you re­al­ly are ‘the Cho­sen One’ —”

“There has been much talk on that very sub­ject even amongst the ghosts,” in­ter­rupt­ed Near­ly Head­less Nick, in­clin­ing his bare­ly con­nect­ed head to­ward Har­ry so that it wob­bled dan­ger­ous­ly on its ruff. “I am con­sid­ered some­thing of a Pot­ter au­thor­ity; it is wide­ly known that we are friend­ly. I have as­sured the spir­it com­mu­ni­ty that I will not pester you for in­for­ma­tion, how­ev­er. ‘Har­ry Pot­ter knows that he can con­fide in me with com­plete con­fi­dence,’ I told them. ‘I would rather die than be­tray his trust.’”

“That’s not say­ing much, see­ing as you’re al­ready dead,” Ron ob­served.

“Once again, you show all the sen­si­tiv­ity of a blunt axe,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick in af­front­ed tones, and he rose in­to the air and glid­ed back to­ward the far end of the Gryffind­or ta­ble just as Dum­ble­dore got to his feet at the staff ta­ble. The talk and laugh­ter echo­ing around the Hall died away al­most in­stant­ly.

“The very best of evenings to you!” he said, smil­ing broad­ly, his arms opened wide as though to em­brace the whole room.

“What hap­pened to his hand?” gasped Hermione.

She was not the on­ly one who had no­ticed. Dum­ble­dore’s right hand was as black­ened and dead­look­ing as it had been on the night he had come to fetch Har­ry from the Durs­leys. Whis­pers it the room; Dum­ble­dore, in­ter­pret­ing them cor­rect­ly, mere­ly smiled and shook his pur­ple­and­gold sleeve over his in­ju­ry.

“Noth­ing to wor­ry about,” he said air­ily. “Now … to our new stu­dents, wel­come, to our old stu­dents, wel­come back! An­oth­er year full of mag­ical ed­uca­tion awaits you …”

“His hand was like that when I saw him over the sum­mer,”

Har­ry whis­pered to Hermione. “I thought he’d have cured it by now, though … or Madam Pom­frey would’ve done.”

“It looks as if it’s died,” said Hermione, with a nau­se­at­ed ex­pres­sion. “But there are some in­ju­ries you can’t cure… old curs­es…and there are poi­sons with­out an­ti­dotes. . . .”

“…and Mr. Filch, our care­tak­er, has asked me to say that there is a blan­ket ban on any joke items bought at the shop called Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes.

“Those wish­ing to play for their House Quid­ditch teams should give their names to their Heads of House as usu­al. We are al­so look­ing for new Quid­ditch com­men­ta­tors, who should do like­wise.

“We are pleased to wel­come a new mem­ber of staff this year, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn”— Slughorn stood up, his bald head gleam­ing in the can­dle­light, his big waist­coat­ed bel­ly cast­ing the ta­ble in­to shad­ow — “is a for­mer col­league of mine who has agreed to re­sume his old post of Po­tions mas­ter.”

“Po­tions?”

“Po­tions?”

The word echoed all over the Hall as peo­ple won­dered wheel they had heard right.

“Po­tions?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er, turn­ing to stare Har­ry. “But you said —”

“Pro­fes­sor Snape, mean­while,” said Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing voice so that it car­ried over all the mut­ter­ing, “will be tak­ing the po­si­tion of De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er.”

“No!” said Har­ry, so loud­ly that many heads turned in his di­rec­tion. He did not care; he was star­ing up at the staff ta­ble, in­censed. How could Snape be giv­en the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job af­ter all this time? Hadn’t it been wide­ly known for years that Dum­ble­dore did not trust him to do it?

“But Har­ry, you said that Slughorn was go­ing to be teach­ing De­fense Against the Dark Arts!” said Hermione.

“I thought he was!” said Har­ry, rack­ing his brains to re­mem­ber when Dum­ble­dore had told him this, but now that he came to think of it, he was un­able to re­call Dum­ble­dore ev­er telling him what Slughorn would be teach­ing.

Snape, who was sit­ting on Dum­ble­dore’s right, did not stand up his men­tion of his name; he mere­ly raised a hand in lazy ac­knowl­edg­ment of the ap­plause from the Slytherin ta­ble, yet Har­ry was sure he could de­tect a look of tri­umph on the fea­tures he loathed so much.

“Well, there’s one good thing,” he said sav­age­ly. “Snape’ll be gone by the end of the year.”

“What do you mean?” asked Ron.

“That job’s jinxed. No ones last­ed more than a year… Quir­rell ac­tu­al­ly died do­ing it… Per­son­al­ly, I’m go­ing to keep my fin­gers crossed for an­oth­er death…”

“Har­ry!” said Hermione, shocked and re­proach­ful.

“He might just go back to teach­ing Po­tions at the end of the year,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “That Slughorn bloke might not want to stay longterm. Moody didn’t.”

“Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were not the on­ly ones who had been talk­ing; the whole Hall had erupt­ed in a buzz of con­ver­sa­tion at the news that Snape had fi­nal­ly achieved his heart’s de­sire. Seem­ing­ly obliv­ious to the sen­sa­tion­al na­ture of the news he had just im­part­ed, Dum­ble­dore said noth­ing more about staff ap­point­ments, but wait­ed a few sec­onds to en­sure that the si­lence was ab­so­lute be­fore con­tin­uing.

“Now, as ev­ery­body in this Hall knows, Lord Volde­mort and his fol­low­ers are once more at large and gain­ing in strength.”

The si­lence seemed to taut­en and strain as Dum­ble­dore spoke. Har­ry glanced at Mal­foy. Mal­foy was not look­ing at Dum­ble­dore, but mak­ing his fork hov­er in midair with his wand, as though he found the head­mas­ter’s words un­wor­thy of his at­ten­tion.

“I can­not em­pha­size strong­ly enough how dan­ger­ous the present sit­ua­tion is, and how much care each of us at Hog­warts must take to en­sure that we re­main safe. The cas­tle’s mag­ical for­ti­fi­ca­tions have been strength­ened over the sum­mer, we are pro­tect­ed in new and more pow­er­ful ways, but we must still guard scrupu­lous­ly against care­less­ness on the part of any stu­dent or mem­ber of staff. I urge you, there­fore, to abide by any se­cu­ri­ty re­stric­tions that you teach­ers might im­pose up­on you, how­ev­er irk­some you might find them — in par­tic­ular, the rule that you are not to be out of af­ter hours. I im­plore you, should you no­tice any­thing strange or sus­pi­cious with­in or out­side the cas­tle, to re­port it to a mem­ber of staff im­me­di­ate­ly. I trust you to con­duct your­selves, al­ways, with the ut­most re­gard for your own and oth­ers’ safe­ty.”

Dum­ble­dore’s blue eyes swept over the stu­dents be­fore he smiled once more.

“But now, your beds await, as warm and com­fort­able as you could pos­si­bly wish, and I know that your top pri­or­ity is to be well­rest­ed for your lessons to­mor­row. Let us there­fore say good night. Pip pip!”

With the usu­al deaf­en­ing scrap­ing noise, the bench­es moved back and the hun­dreds of stu­dents be­gan to file out of the Great Hall to­ward their dor­mi­to­ries. Har­ry, who was in no hur­ry at all to leave with the gaw­ping crowd, nor to get near enough to Mal­foy to al­low him to retell the sto­ry of the noses­tamp­ing, lagged be­hind, pre­tend­ing to retie the lace on his train­er, al­low­ing most of Gryffind­ors to draw ahead of him. Hermione had dart­ed ahead to ful­fill her pre­fect’s du­ty of shep­herd­ing the first years, but Ron re­mained with Har­ry.

“What re­al­ly hap­pened to your nose?” he asked, once they were at the very back of the throng press­ing out of the Hall, and out of earshot of any­one else.

Har­ry told him. It was a mark of the strength of their friend­ship that Ron did not laugh.

“I saw Mal­foy mim­ing some­thing to do with a nose,” he said dark­ly.

“Yeah, well, nev­er mind that,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Lis­ten to what he was say­ing be­fore he found out I was there…”

“Har­ry had ex­pect­ed Ron to be stunned by Mal­foys boasts. With what Har­ry con­sid­ered pure pig­head­ed­ness, how­ev­er, Ron was unim­pressed.

“Come on, Har­ry, he was just show­ing off for Parkin­son….

What kind of mis­sion would YouKnowWho have giv­en him?”

“How d’you know Volde­mort doesn’t need some­one at Hog­warts? It wouldn’t be the first —”

“I wish yeh’d stop sayin’ tha name, Har­ry,” said a re­proach­ful voice be­hind them. Har­ry looked over his shoul­der to see Hagtid shak­ing his head.

“Dum­ble­dore us­es that name,” said Har­ry stub­born­ly

“Yeah, well, tha’s Dum­ble­dore, in­nit?” said Ha­grid mys­te­ri­ous­ly.

“So how come yeh were late, Har­ry? I was wor­ried.”

“Got held up on the train,” said Har­ry. “Why were you late?”

“I was with Grawp,” said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. “Los’ track o’ the time. He’s got a new home up in the moun­tains now, Dum­ble­dore fixed it — nice big cave. He’s much hap­pi­er than he was in the for­est. We were havin’ a good chat.”

“Re­al­ly?” said Har­ry, tak­ing care not to catch Ron’s eye; the last time he had met Ha­grid’s half­broth­er, a vi­cious gi­ant with a tal­ent for rip­ping up trees by the roots, his vo­cab­ulary had com­prised five words, two of which he was un­able to pro­nounce prop­er­ly.

“Oh yeah, he’s re­al­ly come on,” said Ha­grid proud­ly. “Yeh’ll be amazed. I’m thinkin’ o’ train­in’ him up as me as­sis­tant.”

Ron snort­ed loud­ly, but man­aged to pass it off as a vi­olent sneeze. They were now stand­ing be­side the oak front doors.

“Any­way, I’ll see yeh to­mor­row, firs’ les­son’s straight af­ter lunch. Come ear­ly an’ yeh can say hel­lo ter Buck — I mean, With­er­wings!”

Rais­ing an arm in cheery farewell, he head­ed out of the doors in­to the dark­ness.

Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er. Har­ry could tell that Ron was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing the same sink­ing feel­ing as him­self.

“You’re not tak­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, are you?”

Ron shook his head. “And you’re not ei­ther, are you?”

Har­ry shook his head too.

“And Hermione,” said Ron, “she’s not, is she?”

Har­ry shook his head again. Ex­act­ly what Ha­grid would say when he re­al­ized his three fa­vorite stu­dents had giv­en up his sub­ject, he did not like to think.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 9: The Half-Blood Prince


Har­ry and Ron met Hermione in the com­mon room be­fore break­fast next morn­ing. Hop­ing for some sup­port in his the­ory, Har­ry lost no time in telling Hermione what he had over­heard Mal­foy say­ing on the Hog­warts Ex­press.

“But he was ob­vi­ous­ly show­ing off for Parkin­son, wasn’t he?” in­ter­ject­ed Ron quick­ly, be­fore Hermione could say any­thing.

“Well,” she said un­cer­tain­ly, “I don’t know. It would be like Mal­foy to make him­self seem more im­por­tant than he is … but that’s a big lie to tell…”

“Ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry, but he could nor press the point, be­cause so many peo­ple were try­ing to lis­ten in to his con­ver­sa­tion, not to men­tion star­ing at him and whis­per­ing be­hind their hands.

“It’s rude to point,” Ron snapped at a par­tic­ular­ly mi­nus­cule firstyear boy as they joined the queue to climb out of the por­trait hole. The boy, who had been mut­ter­ing some­thing about Har­ry be­hind his hand to his friend, prompt­ly turned scar­let and top­pled out of the hole in alarm. Ron snig­gered. “I love be­ing a sixth year. And were go­ing to be get­ting free time this year. Whole pe­ri­ods when we can just sit up here and re­lax.”

“We’re go­ing to need that time for study­ing, Ron!” said Hermione, as they set off down the cor­ri­dor.

“Yeah, but not to­day,” said Ron. “To­day’s go­ing to be a re­al loss, I reck­on.”

“Hold it!” said Hermione, throw­ing out an arm and halt­ing a pass­ing fourth year, who was at­tempt­ing to push past her with a limegreen disk clutched tight­ly in his hand. “Fanged Fris­bees banned, hand it over,” she told him stern­ly. The scowl­ing boy hand­ed over the snarling Fris­bee, ducked un­der her arm, and took off af­ter his friends. Ron wait­ed for him to van­ish, then tugged the Fris­bee from Hermione’s grip.

“Ex­cel­lent, I’ve al­ways want­ed one of these.”

Hermione’s re­mon­stra­tion was drowned by a loud gig­gle; Laven­der Brown had ap­par­ent­ly found Ron’s re­mark high­ly amus­ing. She con­tin­ued to laugh as she passed them, glanc­ing back at Ron over her shoul­der. Ron looked rather pleased with him­self.

The ceil­ing of the Great Hall was serene­ly blue and streaked with frail, wispy clouds, just like the squares of sky vis­ible through the high mul­li­oned win­dows. While they tucked in­to por­ridge and eggs and ba­con, Har­ry and Ron told Hermione about their em­barass­ing con­ver­sa­tion with Ha­grid the pre­vi­ous evening.

“But he can’t re­al­ly think we’d con­tin­ue Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures!” she said, look­ing dis­tressed. “I mean, when has any of us ex­pressed . . . you know . . . any en­thu­si­asm?”

“That’s it, though, in­nit?” said Ron, sw­al­low­ing an en­tire fried egg whole. “We were the ones who made the most ef­fort in class­es be­cause we like Ha­grid. But he thinks we liked the stupid sub­ject. D’ya reck­on any­one’s go­ing to go on to N.E.W.T.?”

Nei­ther Har­ry nor Hermione an­swered; there was no need. They knew per­fect­ly well that no­body in their year would want to con­tin­ue Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures. They avoid­ed Ha­grid’s eye and re­turned his cheery wave on­ly half­heart­ed­ly when he left the staff ta­ble ten min­utes lat­er.

Af­ter they had eat­en, they re­mained in their places, await­ing Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s de­scent from the staff ta­ble. The dis­tri­bu­tion of class sched­ules was more com­pli­cat­ed than usu­al this year, for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall need­ed first to con­firm that ev­ery­body had achieved the nec­es­sary O.W.L. grades to con­tin­ue with their cho­sen N.E.W.T.s.

Hermione was im­me­di­ate­ly cleared to con­tin­ue with Charms, De­fense Against the Dark Arts, Trans­fig­ura­tion, Her­bol­ogy, Arith­man­cy, An­cient Runes, and Po­tions, and shot off to a first pe­ri­od An­cient Runes class with­out fur­ther ado. Neville took a lit­tle longer to sort out; his round face was anx­ious as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked down his ap­pli­ca­tion and then con­sult­ed his O.W.L re­sults.

“Her­bol­ogy, fine,” she said. “Pro­fes­sor Sprout will be de­light­ed to see you back with an ‘Out­stand­ing’ O.W.L. And you qual­ify for De­fense Against the Dark Arts with ‘Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions.’ But the prob­lem is Trans­fig­ura­tion. I’m sor­ry, Long­bot­tom, but an ‘Ac­cept­able’ re­al­ly isn’t good enough to con­tin­ue to N.E.W.T. lev­el. Just don’t think you’d be able to cope with the course­work.”

Neville hung his head. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall peered at him through her square spec­ta­cles.

“Why do you want to con­tin­ue with Trans­fig­ura­tion, any­way? I’ve nev­er had the im­pres­sion that you par­tic­ular­ly en­joyed it.”

Neville looked mis­er­able and mut­tered some­thing about “my grand­moth­er wants.”

“Hmph,” snort­ed Pro­fes­sot McG­ona­gall. “It’s high time your grand­moth­er learned to be proud of the grand­son she’s got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have - par­tic­ular­ly af­ter what hap­pened at the Min­istry.”

Neville turned very pink and blinked con­fus­ed­ly; Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had nev­er paid him a com­pli­ment be­fore.

“I’m sor­ry, Long­bot­tom, but I can­not let you in­to my N.E.W.T. class. I see that you have an ‘Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions’ in Charm how­ev­er - why not try for a N.E.W.T. in Charms?”

“My grand­moth­er thinks Charms is a soft op­tion,” mum­bled Neville.

“Take Charms,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “and I shall drop Au­gus­ta a line re­mind­ing her that just be­cause she failed her Charms O.W.L., the sub­ject is not nec­es­sar­ily worth­less.” Smil­ing slight­ly at the look of de­light­ed in­creduli­ty on Neville’s face, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tapped a blank sched­ule with the tip of her wand and hand­ed it, now car­ry­ing de­tails of his new class­es, to Neville.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned next to Par­vati Patil, whose first ques­tion was whether Firen­ze, the hand­some cen­taur, was still teach­ing Div­ina­tion.

“He and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney are di­vid­ing class­es be­tween them this year,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, a hint of dis­ap­proval in her voice; it was com­mon knowl­edge that she de­spised the sub­ject of Div­ina­tion. “The sixth year is be­ing tak­en by Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.”

Par­vati set off for Div­ina­tion five min­utes lat­er look­ing slight­ly crest­fall­en.

“So, Pot­ter, Pot­ter . . .” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, con­sult­ing her notes as she turned to Har­ry. “Charms, De­fense Against the Dark Arts, Her­bol­ogy, Trans­fig­ura­tion … all fine. I must say, I was pleased with your Trans­fig­ura­tion mark, Pot­ter, very pleased. Now, why haven’t you ap­plied to con­tin­ue with Po­tions? I thought it was your am­bi­tion to be­come an Au­ror?”

“It was, but you told me I had to get an ‘Out­stand­ing’ in my O.W.L., Pro­fes­sor.”

“And so you did when Pro­fes­sor Snape was teach­ing the sub­ject. Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, how­ev­er, is per­fect­ly hap­py to ac­cept N.E.W.T. stu­dents with ‘Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions’ at O.W.L. Do you wish to pro­ceed with Po­tions?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, “but I didn’t buy the books or any in­gre­di­ents or any­thing-“

“I’m sure Pro­fes­sor Slughorn will be able to lend you some,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Very well, Pot­ter, here is your sched­ule. Oh, by the way- twen­ty hope­fuls have al­ready put down their names for the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team. I shall pass the list to you in due course and you can fix up tri­als at your leisure.”

A few min­utes lat­er, Ron was cleared to do the same sub­jects as Har­ry, and the two of them left the ta­ble to­geth­er.

“Look,” said Ron de­light­ed­ly, gaz­ing ar his sched­ule, “we’ve got a free pe­ri­od now. . . and a free pe­ri­od af­ter break . . . and af­ter lunch . . . ex­cel­lent.”

They re­turned to the com­mon room, which was emp­ty apart from a half dozen sev­enth years, in­clud­ing Katie Bell, the on­ly re­main­ing mem­ber of the orig­in­al Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team that Har­ry had joined in his first year.

“I thought you’d get that, well done,” she called over, point­ing at the Cap­tains badge on Har­ry’s chest. “Tell me when you call tri­als!”

“Don’t be stupid,” said Har­ry, “you don’t need to try out, I watched you play for five years. . . .”

“You mustn’t start off like that,” she said warn­ing­ly. “For all you know, there’s some­one much bet­ter than me out there. Good teams have been ru­in­ed be­fore now be­cause Cap­tains just kept play­ing the old faces, or let­ting in their friends….”

Ron looked a lit­tle un­com­fort­able and be­gan play­ing with the Fanged Fris­bee Hermione had tak­en from the fourthyear stu­dent. It zoomed around the com­mon room, snarling and at­tempt­ing to take bites of the tapestry. Crook­shanks’s yel­low eyes fol­lowed it and he hissed when it came too close.

An hour lat­er they re­luc­tant­ly left the sun­lit com­mon room for the De­fense Against the Dark Arts class­room four floors be­low. Hermione was al­ready queu­ing out­side, car­ry­ing an arm­ful of heavy books and look­ing put­up­on.

“We got so much home­work for Runes,” she said anx­ious­ly when Har­ry and Ron joined her. “A fif­teen­inch es­say, two trans­la­tions, and I’ve got to read these by Wednes­day!”

“Shame,” yawned Ron.

“You wait,” she said re­sent­ful­ly. “I bet Snape gives us loads.”

The class­room door opened as she spoke, and Snape stepped in­to the cor­ri­dor, his sal­low face framed as ev­er by two cur­tains of greasy black hair. Si­lence fell over the queue im­me­di­ate­ly.

“In­side,” he said.

Har­ry looked around as they en­tered. Snape had im­posed his per­son­al­ity up­on the room al­ready; it was gloo­mi­er than usu­al, as cur­tains had been drawn over the win­dows, and was lit by can­dle­light. New pic­tures adorned the walls, many of them show­ing peo­ple who ap­peared to be in pain, sport­ing gris­ly in­ju­ries or strange­ly con­tort­ed body parts. No­body spoke as they set­tled down, look­ing around at the shad­owy, grue­some pic­tures.

“I have not asked you to take out your books,” said Snape, clos­ing the door and mov­ing to face the class from be­hind his desk; Hermione hasti­ly dropped her copy of Con­fronting the Face­less back in­to her bag and stowed it un­der her chair. “I wish to speak to you, and I want your fullest at­ten­tion.”

His black eyes roved over their up­turned faces, lin­ger­ing for a frac­tion of a sec­ond longer on Har­ry’s than any­one else’s.

“You have had five teach­ers in this sub­ject so far, I be­lieve.”

You be­lieve . . . like you haven’t watched them all come and go, hop­ing you’d be next, thought Har­ry scathing­ly.

“Nat­ural­ly, these teach­ers will all have had their own meth­ods and pri­or­ities. Giv­en this con­fu­sion I am sur­prised so many of you scraped an O.W.L. in this sub­ject. I shall be even more sur­prised if all of you man­age to keep up with the N.E.W.T. work, which will be more ad­vanced.”

Snape set off around the edge of the room, speak­ing now in a low­er voice; the class craned their necks to keep him in view. “The Dark Arts,” said Snape, “are many, var­ied, ev­er­chang­ing, and eter­nal. Fight­ing them is like fight­ing a many­head­ed mon­ster, which, each time a neck is sev­ered, sprouts a head even fiercer and clev­er­er than be­fore. You are fight­ing that which is un­fixed, mu­tat­ing, in­de­struc­tible.”

Har­ry stared at Snape. It was sure­ly one thing to re­spect the Dark Arts as a dan­ger­ous en­emy, an­oth­er to speak of them, as Snape was do­ing, with a lov­ing ca­ress in his voice?

“Your de­fens­es,” said Snape, a lit­tle loud­er, “must there­fore be as flex­ible and in­ven­tive as the arts you seek to un­do. These pic­tures” - he in­di­cat­ed a few of them as he swept past - “give a fair rep­re­sen­ta­tion of what hap­pens to those who suf­fer, for in­stance, the Cru­cia­tus Curse” - he waved a hand to­ward a witch who was clear­ly shriek­ing in agony - “feel the De­men­tor’s Kiss” - a wiz­ard ly­ing hud­dled and blankeyed, slumped against a wall - “or pro­voke the ag­gres­sion of the In­ferius” - a bloody mass up­on ground.

“Has an In­ferius been seen, then?” said Par­vati Patil in a high pitched voice. “Is it def­inite, is he us­ing them?”

“The Dark Lord has used In­feri in the past,” said Snape, “which means you would be wellad­vised to as­sume he might use them again. Now. . . “

He set off again around the oth­er side of the class­room to­ward his desk, and again, they watched him as he walked, his dark robes bil­low­ing be­hind him. ,

“. . . you are, I be­lieve, com­plete novices in the use of non­ver­bal spells. What is the ad­van­tage of a non­ver­bal spell?”

Hermione’s hand shot in­to the air. Snape took his time look­ing around at ev­ery­body else, mak­ing sure he had no choice, be­fore say­ing curt­ly, “Very well - Miss Granger?”

“Your ad­ver­sary has no warn­ing about what kind of mag­ic you’re about to per­form,” said Hermione, “which gives you a split­sec­ond ad­van­tage.”

“An an­swer copied al­most word for word from The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade Six,” said Snape dis­mis­sive­ly (over in the cor­ner, Mal­foy snig­gered), “but cor­rect in es­sen­tials. Yes, those who progress in us­ing mag­ic with­out shout­ing in­can­ta­tions gain an el­ement of sur­prise in their spell­cast­ing. Not all wiz­ards can do this, of course; it is a ques­tion of con­cen­tra­tion and mind pow­er which some” - his gaze lin­gered ma­li­cious­ly up­on Har­ry once more - “lack.”

Har­ry knew Snape was think­ing of their dis­as­trous Oc­clu­men­cy lessons of the pre­vi­ous year. He re­fused to drop his gaze, but glow­ered at Snape un­til Snape looked away.

“You will now di­vide,” Snape went on, “in­to pairs. One part­ner will at­tempt to jinx the oth­er with­out speak­ing. The oth­er will at­tempt to re­pel the jinx in equal si­lence. Car­ry on.”

Al­though Snape did not know it, Har­ry had taught at least half the class (ev­ery­one who had been a mem­ber of the D.A.) how to per­form a Shield Charm the pre­vi­ous year. None of them had ev­er cast the charm with­out speak­ing, how­ev­er. A rea­son­able amount of cheat­ing en­sued; many peo­ple were mere­ly whis­per­ing the in­can­ta­tion in­stead of say­ing it aloud. Typ­ical­ly, ten min­utes in­to the les­son Hermione man­aged to re­pel Neville’s mut­tered Jel­lyLegs Jinx with­out ut­ter­ing a sin­gle word, a feat that would sure­ly have earned her twen­ty points for Gryffind­or from any rea­son­able teach­er, thought Har­ry bit­ter­ly, but which Snape ig­nored. He swept be­tween them as they prac­ticed, look­ing just as much like an over­grown bat as ev­er, lin­ger­ing to watch Har­ry and Ron strug­gling with the task.

Ron, who was sup­posed to be jinx­ing Har­ry, was pur­ple in the face, his lips tight­ly com­pressed to save him­self from the temp­ta­tion of mut­ter­ing the in­can­ta­tion. Har­ry had his wand raised, wait­ing on ten­ter­hooks to re­pel a jinx that seemed un­like­ly ev­er to come.

“Pa­thet­ic, Weasley,” said Snape, af­ter a while. “Here — let me show you-“

He turned his wand on Har­ry so fast that Har­ry re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly; all thought of non­ver­bal spells for­got­ten, he yelled, “Pro­tego!”

His Shield Charm was so strong Snape was knocked off­bal­an­ce and hit a desk. The whole class had looked around and now watched as Snape right­ed him­self, scowl­ing.

“Do you re­mem­ber me telling you we are prac­tic­ing non­ver­bal spells, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry stiffly.

“Yes, sir.”

“There’s no need to call me ’sir,’ Pro­fes­sor.” The words had es­caped him be­fore he knew what he was say­ing. Sev­er­al peo­ple gasped, in­clud­ing Hermione. Be­hind Snape, how­ev­er, Ron, Dean, and Sea­mus grinned ap­pre­cia­tive­ly.

“De­ten­tion, Sat­ur­day night, my of­fice,” said Snape. “I do not take cheek from any­one, Pot­ter . . . not even ‘the Cho­sen One.’”

“That was bril­liant, Har­ry!” chor­tled Ron, once they were safe­ly on their way to break a short while lat­er.

“You re­al­ly shouldn’t have said it,” said Hermione, frown­ing at Ron. “What made you?”

“He tried to jinx me, in case you didn’t no­tice!” fumed Har­ry. I had enough of that dur­ing those Oc­clu­men­cy lessons! Why doesn’t he use an­oth­er guinea pig for a change? What’s Dum­ble­dore play­ing at, any­way, let­ting him teach De­fense? Did you hear him talk­ing about the Dark Arts? He loves them! All that un­fixed, in­de­struc­tble stuff –“

“Well,” said Hermione, “I thought he sound­ed a bit like you.”

“Like me?”

“Yes, when you were telling us what it’s like to face Volde­mort. You said it wasn’t just mem­oriz­ing a bunch of spells, you said it was just you and your brains and your guts - well, wasn’t that what Snape was say­ing? That it re­al­ly comes down to be­ing brave and quick­think­ing?”

Har­ry was so dis­armed that she had thought his words as well worth mem­oriz­ing as The Stan­dard Book of Spells that he did not ar­gue.

“Har­ry! Hey, Har­ry!”

Har­ry looked around; Jack Slop­er, one of the Beat­ers on last year’s Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team, was hur­ry­ing to­ward him hold­ing a roll of parch­ment.

“For you,” pant­ed Slop­er. “Lis­ten, I heard you’re the new Cap­tain. When’re you hold­ing tri­als?”

“I’m not sure yet,” said Har­ry, think­ing pri­vate­ly that Slop­er would be very lucky to get back on the team. “I’ll let you know.”

“Oh, right. I was hop­ing it’d be this week­end -“

“But Har­ry was not lis­ten­ing; he had just rec­og­nized the thin, slant­ing writ­ing on the parch­ment. Leav­ing Slop­er in mid­sen­tence, he hur­ried away with Ron and Hermione, un­rolling the parch­ment as he went.

Dear Har­ry, I would like to start our pri­vate lessons this Sat­ur­day. Kind­ly come along to my of­fice at 8 P.M. I hope you are en­joy­ing your first day back at school.

Yours sin­cere­ly,

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore P.S. I en­joy Acid Pops.

“He en­joys Acid Pops?” said Ron, who had read the mes­sage over Har­ry’s shoul­der and was look­ing per­plexed.

“It’s the pass­word to get past the gar­goyle out­side his study,” said Har­ry in a low voice. “Ha! Snape’s not go­ing to be pleased. . . . I won’t be able to do his de­ten­tion!”

He, Ron, and Hermione spent the whole of break spec­ulat­ing on what Dum­ble­dore would teach Har­ry. Ron thought it most like­ly to be spec­tac­ular jinx­es and hex­es of the type the Death Eaters would not know. Hermione said such things were il­le­gal, and thought it much more like­ly that Dum­ble­dore want­ed to teach Har­ry ad­vanced De­fen­sive mag­ic. Af­ter break, she went off to Arith­man­cy while Har­ry and Ron re­turned to the com­mon room where they grudg­ing­ly start­ed Snape’s home­work. This turned out to be so com­plex that they still had not fin­ished when Hermione joined them for their af­ter­lunch free pe­ri­od (though she con­sid­er­ably speed­ed up the pro­cess). They had on­ly just fin­ished when the bell rang for the af­ter­noon’s dou­ble Po­tions and they beat the fa­mil­iar path down to the dun­geon class­room that had, for so long, been Snape’s.

When they ar­rived in the cor­ri­dor they saw that there were on­ly a dozen peo­ple pro­gress­ing to N.E.W.T. lev­el. Crabbe and Goyle had ev­ident­ly failed to achieve the re­quired O.W.L. grade, but four Slytherins had made it through, in­clud­ing Mal­foy. Four Raven­claws were there, and one Huf­flepuff, Ernie Macmil­lan, whom Har­ry liked de­spite his rather pompous man­ner.

“Har­ry,” Ernie said por­ten­tous­ly, hold­ing out his hand as Har­ry ap­proached, “didn’t get a chance to speak in De­fense Against The Dark Arts this morn­ing. Good les­son, I thought, but Shield Charms are old hat, of course, for us old D.A. lags . . . And how are you, Ron — Hermione?”

Be­fore they could say more than “fine,” the dun­geon door opened and Slughorn’s bel­ly pre­ced­ed him out of the door. As they filed in­to the room, his great wal­rus mus­tache curved above his beam­ing mouth, and he greet­ed Har­ry and Zabi­ni with par­tic­ular en­thu­si­asm.

The dun­geon was, most un­usu­al­ly, al­ready full of va­pors and odd smells. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sniffed in­ter­est­ed­ly as they passed large, bub­bling caul­drons. The four Slytherins took a ta­ble to­geth­er, as did the four Raven­claws. This left Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to share a ta­ble with Ernie. They chose the one near­est a gold­col­ored caul­dron that was emit­ting one of the most se­duc­tive scents Har­ry had ev­er in­haled: Some­how it re­mind­ed him si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly of trea­cle tart, the woody smell of a broom­stick han­dle, and some­thing flow­ery he thought he might have smelled at the Bur­row. He found that he was breath­ing very slow­ly and deeply and that the po­tion’s fumes seemed to be fill­ing him up like drink. A great con­tent­ment stole over him; he grinned across at Ron, who grinned back lazi­ly.

“Now then, now then, now then,” said Slughorn, whose mas­sive out­line was quiv­er­ing through the many shim­mer­ing va­pors. “Scales out, ev­ery­one, and po­tion kits, and don’t for­get your copies

of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. . . .”

“Sir?” said Har­ry, rais­ing his hand.

“Har­ry, m’boy?”

“I haven’t got a book or scales or any­thing - nor’s Ron - we didn’t re­al­ize we’d be able to do the N.E.W.T., you see -“

“Ah, yes, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall did men­tion . . . not to wor­ry, my dear boy, not to wor­ry at all. You can use in­gre­di­ents from the store cup­board to­day, and I’m sure we can lend you some scales, and we’ve got a small stock of old books here, they’ll do un­til you can write to Flour­ish and Blotts. . . .”

Slughorn strode over to a cor­ner cup­board and, af­ter a mo­ment’s for­ag­ing, emerged with two very bat­tered­look­ing copies of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing by Li­batius Bor­age, which he gave to Har­ry and Ron along with two sets of tar­nished scales.

“Now then,” said Slughorn, re­turn­ing to the front of the class and in­flat­ing his al­ready bulging chest so that the but­tons on his waist­coat threat­ened to burst off, “I’ve pre­pared a few po­tions for you to have a look at, just out of in­ter­est, you know. These are the kind of thing you ought to be able to make af­ter com­plet­ing your N.E.W.T.s. You ought to have heard of ‘em, even if you haven’t made ‘em yet. Any­one tell me what this one is?”

He in­di­cat­ed the caul­dron near­est the Slytherin ta­ble. Har­ry raised him­self slighty in his seat and saw what looked like plain wa­ter boil­ing away in­side it.

Hermione’s well­prac­ticed hand hit the air be­fore any­body else’s; Slughorn point­ed at her.

“It’s Ver­itaserum, a col­or­less, odor­less po­tion thar forces the drinker to tell the truth,” said Hermione.

“Very good, very good!” said Slughorn hap­pi­ly. “Now,” he con­tin­ued, point­ing at the caul­dron near­est the Raven­claw ta­ble, “this one here is pret­ty well known… Fea­tured in a few Min­istry leaflets late­ly too… Who can - ?”

Hermione’s hand was fastest once more.

“lt’s Polyjuice Po­tion, sir,” she said.

Har­ry too had rec­og­nized the slow­bub­bling, mud­like sub­stance the sec­ond caul­dron, but did not re­sent Hermione get­ting the cred­it for an­swer­ing the ques­tion; she, af­ter all, was the one who had suc­ceed­ed in mak­ing it, back in their sec­ond year. “Ex­cel­lent, ex­cel­lent! Now, this one here . . . yes, my dear?” said Slughorn, now look­ing slight­ly be­mused, as Hermione’s hand punched the air again.

“It’s Amor­ten­tia!”

“It is in­deed. Ir seems al­most fool­ish to ask,” said Slughorn, who was look­ing might­ily im­pressed, “but I as­sume you know what it does?”

“It’s the most pow­er­ful love po­ri­on in the world!” said Hermione.

“Quite right! You rec­og­nized it, I sup­pose, by its dis­tinc­tive moth­erof­pearl sheen?”

“And the steam ris­ing in char­ac­ter­is­tic spi­rals,” said Hermione en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, “and it’s sup­posed to smell dif­fer­ent­ly to each of ac­cord­ing to what at­tracts us, and I can smell fresh­ly mown grass and new parch­ment and -“

But she turned slight­ly pink and did not com­plete the sen­tence.

‘May I ask your name, my dear?” said Slughorn, ig­nor­ing Hermione’s em­bar­rass­ment.

“Hermione Granger, sir.”

“Granger? Granger? Can you pos­si­bly be re­lat­ed to Hec­tor Dag­worth­Granger, who found­ed the Most Ex­traor­di­nary So­ci­ety of Po­tion­eers?”

“No. I don’t think so, sir. I’m Mug­gle­born, you see.”

Har­ry saw Mal­foy lean close to Nott and whis­per some­thing; both of them snig­gered, but Slughorn showed no dis­may; on the con­trary, he beamed and looked from Hermione to Har­ry, who was sit­ting next to her.

“Oho! ‘One of my best friends is Mug­gle­born, and she’s the best in our year!’ I’m as­sum­ing this is the very friend of whom you spoke, Har­ry?”

“Yes, sir,” said Har­ry.

“Well, well, take twen­ty wel­learned points for Gryffind­or, Miss Granger,” said Slughorn ge­nial­ly.

Mal­foy looked rather as he had done the time Hermione had punched him in the face. Hermione turned to Har­ry with a ra­di­ant ex­pres­sion and whis­pered, “Did you re­al­ly tell him I’m the best in the year? Oh, Har­ry!”

“Well, what’s so im­pres­sive about that?” whis­pered Ron, who for some rea­son looked an­noyed. “You are the best in the year - I’d've told him so if he’d asked me!”

Hermione smiled but made a “shhing” ges­ture, so that they could hear what Slughorn was say­ing. Ron looked slight­ly dis­grun­tled.

“Amor­ten­tia doesn’t re­al­ly cre­ate love, of course. It is im­pos­si­ble to man­ufac­ture or im­itate love. No, this will sim­ply cause a pow­er­ful in­fat­ua­tion or ob­ses­sion. It is prob­ably the most dan­ger­ous and pow­er­ful po­tion in this room - oh yes,” he said, nod­ding grave­ly at Mal­foy and Nott, both of whom were smirk­ing skep­ti­cal­ly. “When you have seen as much of life as I have, you will not un­der­es­ti­mate the pow­er of ob­ses­sive love.”

“And now,” said Slughorn, “it is time for us to start work.”

“Sir, you haven’t told us what’s in this one,” said Ernie Macmil­lan, point­ing at a small black caul­dron stand­ing on Slughorn’s desk. The po­tion with­in was splash­ing about mer­ri­ly; it was the col­or of molten gold, and large drops were leap­ing like gold­fish above the sur­face, though not a par­ti­cle had spilled.

“Oho,” said Slughorn again. Har­ry was sure that Slughorn had not for­got­ten the po­tion at all, but had wait­ed to be asked for dra­mat­ic ef­fect. “Yes. That. Well, that one, ladies and gen­tle­men, is a most cu­ri­ous lit­tle po­tion called Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. I take it,” he turned, smil­ing, to look at Hermione, who had let out an au­di­ble gasp, “that you know what Fe­lix Fe­li­cis does, Miss Granger?”

“It’s liq­uid luck,” said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly. “It makes you lucky!”

The whole class seemed to sit up a lit­tle straighter. Now all Har­ry could see of Mal­foy was the back of his sleek blond head, be­cause he was at last giv­ing Slughorn his full and un­di­vid­ed at­ten­tion.

“Quite right, take an­oth­er ten points for Gryffind­or. Yes, it’s a fun­ny lit­tle po­tion, Fe­lix Fe­li­cis,” said Slughorn. “Des­per­ate­ly tricky to make, and dis­as­trous to get wrong. How­ev­er, if brewed cor­rect­ly, as this has been, you will find that all your en­deav­ors tend to suc­ceed … at least un­til the ef­fects wear off.”

“Why don’t peo­ple drink it all the time, sir?” said Ter­ry Boot ea­ger­ly.

“Be­cause if tak­en in ex­cess, it caus­es gid­di­ness, reck­less­ness, and dan­ger­ous over­con­fi­dence,” said Slughorn. “Too much of a good thing, you know. . . high­ly tox­ic in large quan­ti­ties. But tak­en spar­ing­ly, and very oc­ca­sion­al­ly . . .”

“Have you ev­er tak­en it, sir?” asked Michael Cor­ner with great in­ter­est.

“Twice in my life,” said Slughorn. “Once when I was twen­ty­four, once when I was fifty­sev­en. Two ta­ble­spoon­fuls tak­en with break­fast. Two per­fect days.”

He gazed dream­ily in­to the dis­tance. Whether he was play­act­ing or not, thought Har­ry, the ef­fect was good.

“And that,” said Slughorn, ap­par­ent­ly com­ing back to earth, “is what I shall be of­fer­ing as a prize in this les­son.”

There was si­lence in which ev­ery bub­ble and gur­gle of the sur­round­ing po­tions seemed mag­ni­fied ten­fold.

“One tiny bot­tle of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis,” said Slughorn, tak­ing a mi­nus­cule glass bot­tle with a cork in it out of his pock­et and show­ing it to them all. “Enough for twelve hours’ luck. From dawn till dusk, you will be lucky in ev­ery­thing you at­tempt.”

“Now, I must give you warn­ing that Fe­lix Fe­li­cis is a banned sub­stance in or­ga­nized com­pe­ti­tions . . . sport­ing events, for in­stance, ex­am­ina­tions, or elec­tions. So the win­ner is to use it on an or­di­nary day on­ly . . . and watch how that or­di­nary day be­comes ex­traor­di­nary!”

“So,” said Slughorn, sud­den­ly brisk, “how are you to win this fab­ulous prize? Well, by turn­ing to page ten of Ad­vanced Po­tion Mak­ing. We have a lit­tle over an hour left to us, which should be time for you to make a de­cent at­tempt at the Draught of Liv­ing Death. I know it is more com­plex than any­thing you have at­tempt­ed be­fore, and I do not ex­pect a per­fect po­tion from any­body. The per­son who does best, how­ev­er, will win lit­tle Fe­lix here. Off you go!”

There was a scrap­ing as ev­ery­one drew their caul­drons to­ward them and some loud clunks as peo­ple be­gan adding weights to their scales, but no­body spoke. The con­cen­tra­tion with­in the room was al­most tan­gi­ble. Har­ry saw Mal­foy rif­fling fever­ish­ly through his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing., It could not have been clear­er that Mal­foy re­al­ly want­ed that lucky day. Har­ry bent swift­ly over the tat­tered book Slughorn had lent him.

To his an­noy­an­ce he saw that the pre­vi­ous own­er had scrib­bled all over the pages, so that the mar­gins were as black as the print­ed por­tions. Bend­ing low to de­ci­pher the in­gre­di­ents (even here, the pre­vi­ous own­er had made an­no­ta­tions and crossed things out) Har­ry hur­ried off to­ward the store cup­board to find what he need­ed. As he dashed back to his caul­dron, he saw Mal­foy cut­ting up Va­le­ri­an roots as fast as he could.

Ev­ery­one kept glanc­ing around at what the rest of the class was do­ing; this was both an ad­van­tage and a dis­ad­van­tage of Po­tions, that it was hard to keep your work pri­vate. With­in ten min­utes, the whole place was full of bluish steam. Hermione, of course, seemed to have pro­gressed fur­thest. Her po­tion al­ready re­sem­bled the “smooth, black cur­rant­col­ored liq­uid” men­tioned as the ide­al halfway stage.

Hav­ing fin­ished chop­ping his roots, Har­ry bent low over his book again. It was re­al­ly very ir­ri­tat­ing, hav­ing to try and de­ci­pher the di­rec­tions un­der all the stupid scrib­bles of the pre­vi­ous own­er, who for some rea­son had tak­en is­sue with the or­der to cut up the sopophorous bean and had writ­ten in the al­ter­na­tive in­struc­tion:

Crush with flat side of sil­ver dag­ger,

re­leas­es juice bet­ter than cut­ting.

“Sir, I think you knew my grand­fa­ther, Abraxas Mal­foy?” Har­ry looked up; Slughorn was just pass­ing the Slytherin ta­ble.

“Yes,” said Slughorn, with­out look­ing at Mal­foy, “I was sor­ry to hear he had died, al­though of course it wasn’t un­ex­pect­ed, drag­on pox at his age…”

And he walked away. Har­ry bent back over his caul­dron, smirk­ing. He could tell that Mal­foy had ex­pect­ed to be treat­ed like Har­ry or Zabi­ni; per­haps even hoped for some pref­er­en­tial treat­ment of the type he had learned to ex­pect from Snape. It looked as though Mal­foy would have to re­ly on noth­ing but tal­ent to win the bot­tle of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

The sopophorous bean was prov­ing very dif­fi­cult to cut up. Har­ry turned to Hermione.

“Can I bor­row your sil­ver knife?”

She nod­ded im­pa­tient­ly, not tak­ing her eyes off her po­tion, which was still deep pur­ple, though ac­cord­ing to the book ought to be turn­ing a light shade of lilac by now.

Har­ry crushed his bean with the flat side of the dag­ger. To his as­ton­ish­ment, it im­me­di­ate­ly ex­ud­ed so much juice he was amazed the shriv­eled bean could have held it all.

Hasti­ly scoop­ing it all in­to the caul­dron he saw, to his sur­prise, that the po­tion im­me­di­ate­ly turned ex­act­ly the shade of lilac de­scribed by the text­book.

His an­noy­an­ce with the pre­vi­ous own­er van­ish­ing on the spot, Har­ry now squint­ed at the next line of in­struc­tions. Ac­cord­ing the book, he had to stir coun­ter­clock­wise un­til the po­tion turned clear as wa­ter. Ac­cord­ing to the ad­di­tion the pre­vi­ous own­er made, how­ev­er, he ought to add a clock­wise stir af­ter ev­ery sev­enth coun­ter­clock­wise stir. Could the old own­er be right twice?

Har­ry stirred coun­ter­clock­wise, held his breath, and stirred once clock­wise. The ef­fect was im­me­di­ate. The po­tion turned pale pink.

“How are you do­ing that?” de­mand­ed Hermione, who was red­faced and whose hair was grow­ing bushi­er and bushi­er in the fumes from her caul­dron; her po­tion was still res­olute­ly pur­ple.

“Add a clock­wise stir -“

“No, no, the book says coun­ter­clock­wise!” she snapped.

Har­ry shrugged and con­tin­ued what he was do­ing. Sev­en stirs coun­ter­dock­wise, one clock­wise, pause . . . sev­en stirs coun­ter­clock­wise, one stir clock­wise . . .

Across the ta­ble, Ron was curs­ing flu­ent­ly un­der his breath; his po­tion looked like liq­uid licorice. Har­ry glanced around. As far as he could see, no one else’s po­tion had turned as pale as his. He felt elat­ed, some­thing that had cer­tain­ly nev­er hap­pened be­fore in this dun­geon.

“And time’s . . . up!” called Slughorn. “Stop stir­ring, please!”

Slughorn moved slow­ly among the ta­bles, peer­ing in­to caul­drons. He made no com­ment, but oc­ca­sion­al­ly gave the po­tions a stir or a sniff. At last he reached the ta­ble where Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie were sit­ting. He smiled rue­ful­ly at the tar­like sub­stance in Ron’s caul­dron. He passed over Ernie’s navy con­coc­tion. Hermione’s po­tion he gave an ap­prov­ing nod. Then he saw Har­ry’s, and a look of in­cred­ulous de­light spread over his face.

“The clear win­ner!” he cried to the dun­geon. “Ex­cel­lent, ex­cel­lent, Har­ry! Good lord, it’s clear you’ve in­her­it­ed your moth­er’s tal­ent. She was a dab hand at Po­tions, Lily was! Here you are, then, here you are - one bot­tle of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis, as promised, and use it well!”

Har­ry slipped the tiny bot­tle of gold­en liq­uid in­to his in­ner pock­et, feel­ing an odd com­bi­na­tion of de­light at the fu­ri­ous looks on the Slytherins’ faces and guilt at the dis­ap­point­ed ex­pres­sion on Hermione’s. Ron looked sim­ply dumb­found­ed.

“How did you do that?” he whis­pered to Har­ry as they left the dun­geon.

“Got lucky, I sup­pose,” said Har­ry, be­cause Mal­foy was with­in earshot.

Once they were se­cure­ly en­sconced at the Gryffind­or ta­ble for din­ner, how­ev­er, he felt safe enough to tell them. Hermione’s face be­came stonier with ev­ery word he ut­tered.

“I s’pose you think I cheat­ed?” he fin­ished, ag­gra­vat­ed by her ex­pres­sion.

“Well, it wasn’t ex­act­ly your own work, was it?” she said stiffly.

“He on­ly fol­lowed dif­fer­ent in­struc­tions to ours,” said Ron, “Could’ve been a catas­tro­phe, couldn’t it? But he took a risk and it paid off.” He heaved a sigh. “Slughorn could’ve hand­ed me that book, but no, I get the one no one’s ev­er writ­ten on. Puked on, by the look of page fiftyt­wo, but-“

“Hang on,” said a voice close by Har­ry’s left ear and he caught a sud­den waft of that flow­ery smell he had picked up in Slughorn’s dun­geon. He looked around and saw that Gin­ny had joined them. “Did I hear right? You’ve been tak­ing or­ders from some­thing some­one wrote in a book, Har­ry?”

She looked alarmed and an­gry. Har­ry knew what was on her mind at once.

“It’s noth­ing,” he said re­as­sur­ing­ly, low­er­ing his voice. “It’s not like, you know, Rid­dle’s di­ary. It’s just an old text­book some­one’s scrib­bled on.”

“But you’re do­ing what it says?”

“I just tried a few of the tips writ­ten in the mar­gins, hon­est­ly, Gin­ny, there’s noth­ing fun­ny -“

“Gin­ny’s got a point,” said Hermione, perk­ing up at once. “We ought to check that there’s noth­ing odd about it. I mean, all these fun­ny in­struc­tions, who knows?”

“Hey!” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly, as she pulled his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and raised her wand. “Spe­cialis Rev­elio!” she said, rap­ping it smart­ly on the front cov­er. Noth­ing what­so­ev­er hap­pened. The book sim­ply lay there, look­ing old and dirty and do­geared.

“Fin­ished?” said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. “Or d’you want to wait and see if it does a few back­flips?”

“It seems all right,” said Hermione, still star­ing at the book sus­pi­cious­ly. “I mean, it re­al­ly does seem to be … just a text­book.”

“Good. Then I’ll have it back,” said Har­ry, snatch­ing it off the ta­ble, but it slipped from his hand and land­ed open on the floor. No­body else was look­ing. Har­ry bent low to re­trieve the book, and as he did so, he saw some­thing scrib­bled along the bot­tom of the back cov­er in the same small, cramped hand­writ­ing as the in­struc­tions that had won him his bot­tle of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis, now safe­ly hid­den in­side a pair of socks in his trunk up­stairs.

This book is the prop­er­ty of the Half Blood Prince.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 10: The Hour of Gaunt


For or the rest of the week’s Po­tions lessons Har­ry con­tin­ued to fol­low the Half­Blood Prince’s in­struc­tions wher­ev­er they de­vi­at­ed from Li­batius Bor­age’s, with the re­sult that by their fourth les­son Slughorn was rav­ing about Har­rys abil­ities, say­ing that he had rarely taught any­one so tal­ent­ed. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was de­light­ed by this. Al­though Har­ry had of­fered to share his book with both of them, Ron had more dif­fi­cul­ty de­ci­pher­ing the hand­writ­ing than Har­ry did, and could not keep ask­ing Har­ry to read aloud or it might look sus­pi­cious. Hermione, mean­while, was res­olute­ly plow­ing on with what she called the “of­fi­cial” in­struc­tions, but be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly badtem­pered as they yield­ed poor­er re­sults than the Prince’s.

Har­ry won­dered vague­ly who the Half­Blood Prince had been. Al­though the amount of home­work they had been giv­en pre­vent­ed him from read­ing the whole of his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, he had skimmed through it suf­fi­cient­ly to see that there was bare­ly a page on which the Prince had not made ad­di­tion­al notes, not all of them con­cerned with po­tion­mak­ing. Here and there were di­rec­tions for what looked like spells that the Prince had made up him­self.

“Or her­self,” said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, over­hear­ing Har­ry point­ing some of these out to Ron in the com­mon room on Sat­ur­day evening. “It might have been a girl. I think the hand­writ­ing looks more like a girl’s than a boy’s.”

“The Half­Blood Prince, he was called,” Har­ry said. “How many girls have been Princes?”

Hermione seemed to have no an­swer to this. She mere­ly scowled and twitched her es­say on The Prin­ci­ples of Re­ma­te­ri­al­iza­tion away from Ron, who was try­ing to read it up­side down.

Har­ry looked at his watch and hur­ried­ly put the old copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing back in­to his bag.

“It’s five to eight, I’d bet­ter go, I’ll be late for Dum­ble­dore.”

“Ooooh!” gasped Hermione, look­ing up at once. “Good luck! We’ll wait up, we want to hear what he teach­es you!”

“Hope it goes okay,” said Ron, and the pair of them watched Har­ry leave through the por­trait hole.

Har­ry pro­ceed­ed through de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors, though he had to step hasti­ly be­hind a stat­ue when Pro­fes­sor Trelawney ap­peared around a cor­ner, mut­ter­ing to her­self as she shuf­fled a pack of dirty­look­ing play­ing cards, read­ing them as she walked.

“Two of spades: con­flict,” she mur­mured, as she passed the place where Har­ry crouched, hid­den. “Sev­en of spades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: vi­olence. Knave of spades: a dark young man, pos­si­bly trou­bled, one who dis­likes the ques­tion­er —”

She stopped dead, right on the oth­er side of Har­ry’s stat­ue.

“Well, that can’t be right,” she said, an­noyed, and Har­ry heard her reshuf­fling vig­or­ous­ly as she set off again, leav­ing noth­ing but a whiff of cook­ing sher­ry be­hind her. Har­ry wait­ed un­til he was quite sure she had gone, then hur­ried off again un­til he reached the spot in the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor where a sin­gle gar­goyle stood against the wall.

“Acid Pops,” said Har­ry, and the gar­goyle leapt aside; the wall be­hind it slid apart, and a mov­ing spi­ral stone stair­case was re­vealed, on­to which Har­ry stepped, so that he was car­ried in smooth cir­cles up to the door with the brass knock­er that led to Dum­ble­dore’s Of­fice.

Har­ry knocked.

“Come in,” said Dum­ble­dore s voice.

“Good evening, sir,” said Har­ry, walk­ing in­to the head­mas­ter’s of­fice.

“Ah, good evening, Har­ry. Sit down,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “I hope you’ve had an en­joy­able first week back at school?” “Yes, thanks, sir,” said Har­ry.

“You must have been busy, a de­ten­tion un­der your belt al­ready!” “Er,” be­gan Har­ry awk­ward­ly, but Dum­ble­dore did not look too stern.

“I have ar­ranged with Pro­fes­sor Snape that you will do your de­ten­tion next Sat­ur­day in­stead.”

“Right,” said Har­ry, who had more press­ing mat­ters on his mind than Snapes de­ten­tion, and now looked around sur­rep­ti­tious­ly for some in­di­ca­tion of what Dum­ble­dore was plan­ning to do with him this evening. The cir­cu­lar of­fice looked just as it al­ways did; the del­icate sil­ver in­stru­ments stood on spin­dle­legged ta­bles, puff­ing smoke and whirring; por­traits of pre­vi­ous head­mas­ters and head­mis­tress­es dozed in their frames, and Dum­ble­dore’s mag­nif­icent phoenix, Fawkes, stood on his perch be­hind the door, watch­ing Har­ry with bright in­ter­est. It did not even look as though Dum­ble­dore had cleared a space for du­el­ing prac­tice.

“So, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, in a busi­nesslike voice. “You have been won­der­ing, I am sure, what I have planned for you dur­ing these — for want of a bet­ter word — lessons?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, I have de­cid­ed that it is time, now that you know what prompt­ed Lord Volde­mort to try and kill you fif­teen years ago, for you to be giv­en cer­tain in­for­ma­tion.” There was a pause.

“You said, at the end of last term, you were go­ing to tell me ev­ery­thing,” said Har­ry. It was hard to keep a note of ac­cu­sa­tion from his voice. “Sir,” he added.

“And so I did,” said Dum­ble­dore placid­ly. “I told you ev­ery­thing I know. From this point forth, we shall be leav­ing the firm foun­da­tion of fact and jour­ney­ing to­geth­er through the murky marsh­es of mem­ory in­to thick­ets of wildest guess­work. From here on in, Har­ry, I may be as woe­ful­ly wrong as Humphrey Belch­er, who be­lieved the time was ripe for a cheese caul­dron.”

“But you think you’re right?” said Har­ry.

“Nat­ural­ly I do, but as I have al­ready proven to you, I make mis­takes like the next man. In fact, be­ing — for­give me — rather clev­er­er than most men, my mis­takes tend to be cor­re­spond­ing­ly huger.”

“Sir,” said Har­ry ten­ta­tive­ly, “does what you’re go­ing to tell me have any­thing to do with the prophe­cy? Will it help me . . . sur­vive?”

“It has a very great deal to do with the prophe­cy,” said Dum­ble­dore, as ca­su­al­ly as if Har­ry had asked him about the next days weath­er, “and I cer­tain­ly hope that it will help you to sur­vive.”

Dum­ble­dore got to his feet and walked around the desk, past Har­ry, who turned ea­ger­ly in his seat to watch Dum­ble­dore bend­ing over the cab­in­et be­side the door. When Dum­ble­dore straight­ened up, he was hold­ing a fa­mil­iar shal­low stone basin etched with odd mark­in­gs around its rim. He placed the Pen­sieve on the desk in front of Har­ry.

“You look wor­ried.”

Har­ry had in­deed been eye­ing the Pen­sieve with some ap­pre­hen­sion. His pre­vi­ous ex­pe­ri­ences with the odd de­vice that stored and re­vealed thoughts and mem­ories, though high­ly in­struc­tive, had al­so been un­com­fort­able. The last time he had dis­turbed its con­tents, he had seen much more than he would have wished. But Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing.

“This time, you en­ter the Pen­sieve with me . . . and, even more un­usu­al­ly, with per­mis­sion.”

“Where are we go­ing, sir?”

“For a trip down Bob Og­den’s mem­ory lane,” said Dum­ble­dore, pulling from his pock­et a crys­tal bot­tle con­tain­ing a swirling sil­very­white sub­stance.

“Who was Bob Og­den?”

“He was em­ployed by the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He died some time ago, but not be­fore I had tracked him down and per­suad­ed him to con­fide these rec­ol­lec­tions to me. We are about to ac­com­pa­ny him on a vis­it he made in the course of his du­ties. If you will stand, Har­ry …”

But Dum­ble­dore was hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty pulling out the stop­per of the crys­tal bot­tle: His in­ju­red hand seemed stiff and painful.

“Shall —shall I, sir?”

“No mat­ter, Har­ry —”

Dum­ble­dore point­ed his wand at the bot­tle and the cork flew out.

“Sir — how did you in­ju­re your hand?” Har­ry asked again, look­ing at the black­ened fin­gers with a mix­ture of re­vul­sion and pity.

“Now is not the mo­ment for that sto­ry, Har­ry. Not yet. We have an ap­point­ment with Bob Og­den.”

Dum­ble­dore tipped the sil­very con­tents of the bot­tle in­to the Pen­sieve, where they swirled and shim­mered, nei­ther liq­uid nor gas. “Af­ter you,” said Dum­ble­dore, ges­tur­ing to­ward the bowl. Har­ry bent for­ward, took a deep breath, and plunged his face in­to the sil­very sub­stance. He felt his feet leave the of­fice floor; he was falling, falling through whirling dark­ness and then, quite sud­den­ly, he was blink­ing in daz­zling sun­light. Be­fore his eyes had ad­just­ed, Dum­ble­dore land­ed be­side him.

They were stand­ing in a coun­try lane bor­dered by high, tan­gled hedgerows, be­neath a sum­mer sky as bright and blue as a for­get­menot. Some ten feet in front of them stood a short, plump man wear­ing enor­mous­ly thick glass­es that re­duced his eyes to mole­like specks. He was read­ing a wood­en sign­post that was stick­ing out of the bram­bles on the left­hand side of the road. Har­ry knew this must be Og­den; he was the on­ly per­son in sight, and he was al­so wear­ing the strange as­sort­ment of clothes so of­ten cho­sen by in­ex­pe­ri­enced wiz­ards try­ing to look like Mug­gles: in this case, a frock coat and spats over a striped one­piece bathing cos­tume. Be­fore Har­ry had time to do more than reg­is­ter his bizarre ap­pear­an­ce, how­ev­er, Og­den had set off at a brisk walk down the lane.

Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry fol­lowed. As they passed the wood­en sign, Har­ry looked up at its two arms. The one point­ing back the way they had come read: Great Hangle­ton, 5 miles. The arm point­ing af­ter Og­den said Lit­tle Hangle­ton, 1 mile.

They walked a short way with noth­ing to see but the hedgerows, the wide blue sky over­head and the swish­ing, frock­coat­ed fig­ure ahead. Then the lane curved to the left and fell away, slop­ing steeply down a hill­side, so that they had a sud­den, un­ex­pect­ed view of a whole val­ley laid out in front of them. Har­ry could see a vil­lage, un­doubt­ed­ly Lit­tle Hangle­ton, nes­tled be­tween two steep hills, its church and grave­yard clear­ly vis­ible. Across the val­ley, set on the op­po­site hill­side, was a hand­some manor house sur­round­ed by a wide ex­panse of vel­vety green lawn.

Og­den had bro­ken in­to a re­luc­tant trot due to the steep down­ward slope. Dum­ble­dore length­ened his stride, and Har­ry hur­ried to keep up. He thought Lit­tle Hangle­ton must be their fi­nal des­ti­na­tion and won­dered, as he had done on the night they had found Slughorn, why they had to ap­proach it from such a dis­tance. He soon dis­cov­ered that he was mis­tak­en in think­ing that they were go­ing to the vil­lage, how­ev­er. The lane curved to the right and when they round­ed the cor­ner, it was to see the very edge of Og­den’s frock coat van­ish­ing through a gap in the hedge.

Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry fol­lowed him on­to a nar­row dirt track bor­dered by high­er and wilder hedgerows than those they had left be­hind. The path was crooked, rocky, and pot­holed, slop­ing down­hill like the last one, and it seemed to be head­ing for a patch of dark trees a lit­tle be­low them. Sure enough, the track soon opened up at the copse, and Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry came to a halt be­hind Og­den, who had stopped and drawn his wand.

De­spite the cloud­less sky, the old trees ahead cast deep, dark, cool shad­ows, and it was a few sec­onds be­fore Har­ry’s eyes dis­cerned the build­ing halfhid­den amongst the tan­gle of trunks. It seemed to him a very strange lo­ca­tion to choose for a house, or else an odd de­ci­sion to leave the trees grow­ing near­by, block­ing all light and the view of the val­ley be­low. He won­dered whether it was in­hab­it­ed; its walls were mossy and so many tiles had fall­en off the roof that the rafters were vis­ible in places. Net­tles grew all around it, their tips reach­ing the win­dows, which were tiny and thick with grime. Just as he had con­clud­ed that no­body could pos­si­bly live there, how­ev­er, one of the win­dows was thrown open with a clat­ter, and a thin trick­le of steam or smoke is­sued from it, as though some­body was cook­ing.

Og­den moved for­ward qui­et­ly and, it seemed to Har­ry, rather cau­tious­ly. As the dark shad­ows of the trees slid over him, he stopped again, star­ing at the front door, to which some­body had nailed a dead snake.

Then there was a rus­tle and a crack, and a man in rags dropped from the near­est tree, land­ing on his feet right in front of Og­den, who leapt back­ward so fast he stood on the tails of his frock coat and stum­bled.

“You’re not wel­come.”

The man stand­ing be­fore them had thick hair so mat­ted with dirt it could have been any col­or. Sev­er­al of his teeth were miss­ing. His eyes were small and dark and stared in op­po­site di­rec­tions. He might have looked com­ical, but he did not; the ef­fect was fright­en­ing, and Har­ry could not blame Og­den for back­ing away sev­er­al more paces be­fore he spoke.

“Er — good morn­ing. I’m from the Min­istry of Mag­ic —” “You’re not wel­come.”

“Er — I’m sor­ry — I don’t un­der­stand you,” said Og­den ner­vous­ly.

Har­ry thought Og­den was be­ing ex­treme­ly dim; the stranger was mak­ing him­self very clear in Har­ry’s opin­ion, par­tic­ular­ly as he was bran­dish­ing a wand in one hand and a short and rather bloody knife in the oth­er.

“You un­der­stand him, I’m sure, Har­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Yes, of course,” said Har­ry, slight­ly non­plussed. “Why can’t Og­den — ?”

But as his eyes found the dead snake on the door again, he sud­den­ly un­der­stood.

“He’s speak­ing Parsel­tongue?”

“Very good,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding and smil­ing.

The man in rags was now ad­vanc­ing on Og­den, knife in one hand, wand in the oth­er.

“Now, look —” Og­den be­gan, but too late: There was a bang, and Og­den was on the ground, clutch­ing his nose, while a nasty yel­low­ish goo squirt­ed from be­tween his fin­gers.

“Morfin!” said a loud voice.

An el­der­ly man had come hur­ry­ing out of the cot­tage, bang­ing the door be­hind him so that the dead snake swung pa­thet­ical­ly. This man was short­er than the first, and odd­ly pro­por­tioned; his shoul­ders were very broad and his arms over­long, which, with his bright brown eyes, short scrub­by hair, and wrin­kled face, gave him the look of a pow­er­ful, aged mon­key. He came to a halt be­side the man with the knife, who was now cack­ling with laugh­ter at the sight of Og­den on the ground.

“Min­istry, is it?” said the old­er man, look­ing down at Og­den. “Cor­rect!” said Og­den an­gri­ly, dab­bing his face. “And you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?”

“S’right,” said Gaunt. “Got you in the face, did he?” “Yes, he did!” snapped Og­den.

“Should’ve made your pres­ence known, shouldn’t you?” said Gaunt ag­gres­sive­ly. “This is pri­vate prop­er­ty. Can’t just walk in here and not ex­pect my son to de­fend him­self.”

“De­fend him­self against what, man?” said Og­den, clam­ber­ing back to his feet.

“Busy­bod­ies. In­trud­ers. Mug­gles and filth.” Og­den point­ed his wand at his own nose, which was still is­su­ing large amounts of what looked like yel­low pus, and the flow stopped at once. Mr. Gaunt spoke out of the cor­ner of his mouth to Morfin. “Get in the house. Don’t ar­gue.”

This time, ready for it, Har­ry rec­og­nized Parsel­tongue; even while he could un­der­stand what was be­ing said, he dis­tin­guished the weird hiss­ing noise that was all Og­den could hear. Morfin seemed to be on the point of dis­agree­ing, but when his fa­ther cast him a threat­en­ing look he changed his mind, lum­ber­ing away to the cot­tage with an odd rolling gait and slam­ming the front door be­hind him, so that the snake swung sad­ly again.

“It’s your son I’m here to see, Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, as he mopped the last of the pus from the front of his coat. “That was Morfin, wasn’t it?”

“Ah, that was Morfin,” said the old man in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “Are you pure­blood?” he asked, sud­den­ly ag­gres­sive.

“That’s nei­ther here nor there,” said Og­den cold­ly, and Har­ry felt his re­spect for Og­den rise. Ap­par­ent­ly Gaunt felt rather dif­fer­ent­ly.

He squint­ed in­to Og­den’s face and mut­tered, in what was clear­ly sup­posed to be an of­fen­sive tone, “Now I come to think about it, I’ve seen noses like yours down in the vil­lage.”

“I don’t doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them,” said Og­den. “Per­haps we could con­tin­ue this dis­cus­sion in­side?”

“In­side?”

“Yes, Mr. Gaunt. I’ve al­ready told you. I’m here about Morfin. We sent an owl —”

“I’ve no use for owls,” said Gaunt. “I don’t open let­ters.”

“Then you can hard­ly com­plain that you get no warn­ing of vis­itors,” said Og­den tart­ly. “I am here fol­low­ing a se­ri­ous breach of Wiz­ard­ing law, which oc­curred here in the ear­ly hours of this morn­ing —”

“All right, all right, all right!” bel­lowed Gaunt. “Come in the bleed­ing house, then, and much good it’ll do you!”

The house seemed to con­tain three tiny rooms. Two doors led off the main room, which served as kitchen and liv­ing room com­bined. Morfin was sit­ting in a filthy arm­chair be­side the smok­ing fire, twist­ing a live adder be­tween his thick fin­gers and croon­ing soft­ly at it in Parsel­tongue:

Hissy, hissy, lit­tle snakey, Slith­er on the floor You be good to Morfin Or he’ll nail you to the door.

There was a scuf­fling noise in the cor­ner be­side the open win­dow, and Har­ry re­al­ized that there was some­body else in the room, a girl whose ragged gray dress was the ex­act col­or of the dirty stone wall be­hind her. She was stand­ing be­side a steam­ing pot on a grimy black stove, and was fid­dling around with the shelf of squalid­look­ing pots and pans above it. Her hair was lank and dull and she had a plain, pale, rather heavy face. Her eyes, like her broth­er’s, stared in op­po­site di­rec­tions. She looked a lit­tle clean­er than the two men, but Har­ry thought he had nev­er seen a more de­feat­ed­look­ing per­son.

“M’daugh­ter, Merope,” said Gaunt grudg­ing­ly, as Og­den looked in­quir­ing­ly to­ward her.

“Good morn­ing,” said Og­den.

She did not an­swer, but with a fright­ened glance at her fa­ther turned her back on the room and con­tin­ued shift­ing the pots on the shelf be­hind her.

“Well, Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, “to get straight to the point, we have rea­son to be­lieve that your son, Morfin, per­formed mag­ic in front of a Mug­gle late last night.”

There was a deaf­en­ing clang. Merope had dropped one of the pots.

“Pick it up!” Gaunt bel­lowed at her. “That’s it, grub on the floor like some filthy Mug­gle, what’s your wand for, you use­less sack of muck?”

“Mr. Gaunt, please!” said Og­den in a shocked voice, as Merope, who had al­ready picked up the pot, flushed blotchi­ly scar­let, lost her grip on the pot again, drew her wand shak­ily from her pock­et, point­ed it at the pot, and mut­tered a hasty, in­au­di­ble spell that caused the pot to shoot across the floor away from her, hit the op­po­site wall, and crack in two.

Morfin let out a mad cack­le of laugh­ter. Gaunt screamed, “Mend it, you point­less lump, mend it!”

Merope stum­bled across the room, but be­fore she had time to raise her wand, Og­den had lift­ed his own and said firm­ly, “Reparo. ” The pot mend­ed it­self in­stant­ly.

Gaunt looked for a mo­ment as though he was go­ing to shout at Og­den, but seemed to think bet­ter of it: In­stead, he jeered at his daugh­ter, “Lucky the nice man from the Min­istry’s here, isn’t it? Per­haps he’ll take you off my hands, per­haps he doesn’t mind dirty Squibs. . . .”

With­out look­ing at any­body or thank­ing Og­den, Merope picked up the pot and re­turned it, hands trem­bling, to its shelf. She then stood quite still, her back against the wall be­tween the filthy win­dow and the stove, as though she wished for noth­ing more than to sink in­to the stone and van­ish.

“Mr. Gaunt,” Og­den be­gan again, “as I’ve said: the rea­son for my vis­it —”

“I heard you the first time!” snapped Gaunt. “And so what? Morfin gave a Mug­gle a bit of what was com­ing to him — what about it, then?”

“Morfin has bro­ken Wiz­ard­ing law,” said Og­den stern­ly.

“‘Morfin has bro­ken Wiz­ard­ing law.’” Gaunt im­itat­ed Og­den’s voice, mak­ing it pompous and singsong. Morfin cack­led again. “He taught a filthy Mug­gle a les­son, that’s il­le­gal now, is it?”

“Yes,” said Og­den. “I’m afraid it is.”

He pulled from an in­side pock­et a small scroll of parch­ment and un­rolled it.

“What’s that, then, his sen­tence?” said Gaunt, his voice ris­ing an­gri­ly.

“It is a sum­mons to the Min­istry for a hear­ing —”

“Sum­mons! Sum­mons? Who do you think you are, sum­mon­ing my son any­where?”

“I’m Head of the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad,” said Og­den.

“And you think we’re scum, do you?” screamed Gaunt, ad­vanc­ing on Og­den now, with a dirty yel­low­nailed fin­ger point­ing at his chest. “Scum who’ll come run­ning when the Min­istry tells ‘em to? Do you know who you’re talk­ing to, you filthy lit­tle Mud­blood, do you?”

“I was un­der the im­pres­sion that I was speak­ing to Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den, look­ing wary, but stand­ing his ground.

“That’s right!” roared Gaunt. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Gaunt was mak­ing an ob­scene hand ges­ture, but then re­al­ized that he was show­ing Og­den the ug­ly, black­stoned ring he was wear­ing on his mid­dle fin­ger, wav­ing it be­fore Og­den’s eyes. “See this? See this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? Cen­turies it’s been in our fam­ily, that’s how far back we go, and pure­blood all the way! Know how much I’ve been of­fered for this, with the Peverell coat of arms en­graved on the stone?”

“I’ve re­al­ly no idea,” said Og­den, blink­ing as the ring sailed with­in an inch of his nose, “and it’s quite be­side the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has com­mit­ted —”

With a howl of rage, Gaunt ran to­ward his daugh­ter. For a split sec­ond, Har­ry thought he was go­ing to throt­tle her as his hand flew to her throat; next mo­ment, he was drag­ging her to­ward Og­den by a gold chain around her neck.

“See this?” he bel­lowed at Og­den, shak­ing a heavy gold lock­et at him, while Merope splut­tered and gasped for breath.

“I see it, I see it!” said Og­den hasti­ly.

“Slytherins!” yelled Gaunt. “Salazar Slytherin’s! We’re his last liv­ing de­scen­dants, what do you say to that, eh?”

“Mr. Gaunt, your daugh­ter!” said Og­den in alarm, but Gaunt had al­ready re­leased Merope; she stag­gered away from him, back to her cor­ner, mas­sag­ing her neck and gulp­ing for air.

“So!” said Gaunt tri­umphant­ly, as though he had just proved a com­pli­cat­ed point be­yond all pos­si­ble dis­pute. “Don’t you go talk­ing to us as if we’re dirt on your shoes! Gen­er­ations of pure­bloods, wiz­ards all — more than you can say, I don’t doubt!”

And he spat on the floor at Og­dens feet. Morfin cack­led again. Merope, hud­dled be­side the win­dow, her head bowed and her face hid­den by her lank hair, said noth­ing.

“Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den dogged­ly, “I am afraid that nei­ther your an­ces­tors nor mine have any­thing to do with the mat­ter in hand. I am here be­cause of Morfin, Morfin and the Mug­gle he ac­cost­ed late last night. Our in­for­ma­tion” — he glanced down at his scroll of parch­ment — “is that Morfin per­formed a jinx or hex on the said Mug­gle, caus­ing him to erupt in high­ly painful hives.”

Morfin gig­gled.

“Be qui­et, boy,” snarled Gaunt in Parsel­tongue, and Morfin fell silent again.

“And so what if he did, then?” Gaunt said de­fi­ant­ly to Og­den, “I ex­pect you’ve wiped the Mug­gle’s filthy face clean for him, and his mem­ory to boot—”

“That’s hard­ly the point, is it, Mr. Gaunt?” said Og­den. “This was an un­pro­voked at­tack on a de­fense­less —”

“Ar, I had you marked out as a Mug­glelover the mo­ment I saw you,” sneered Gaunt, and he spat on the floor again.

“This dis­cus­sion is get­ting us nowhere,” said Og­den firm­ly. “It is clear from your son’s at­ti­tude that he feels no re­morse for his ac­tions.” He glanced down at his scroll of parch­ment again. “Morfin will at­tend a hear­ing on the four­teenth of Septem­ber to an­swer the charges of us­ing mag­ic in front of a Mug­gle and caus­ing harm and dis­tress to that same Mugg —”

Og­den broke off. The jin­gling, clop­ping sounds of hors­es and loud, laugh­ing voic­es were drift­ing in through the open win­dow. Ap­par­ent­ly the wind­ing lane to the vil­lage passed very close to the copse where the house stood. Gaunt froze, lis­ten­ing, his eyes wide. Morfin hissed and turned his face to­ward the sounds, his ex­pres­sion hun­gry. Merope raised her head. Her face, Har­ry saw, was stark­ly white.

“My God, what an eye­sore!” rang out a girl’s voice, as clear­ly au­di­ble through the open win­dow as if she had stood in the room be­side them. “Couldn’t your fa­ther have that hov­el cleared away, Tom?”

“It’s not ours,” said a young man’s voice. “Ev­ery­thing on the oth­er side of the val­ley be­longs to us, but that cot­tage be­longs to an old tramp called Gaunt, and his chil­dren. The son’s quite mad, you should hear some of the sto­ries they tell in the vil­lage —”

The girl laughed. The jin­gling, clop­ping nois­es were grow­ing loud­er and loud­er. Morfin made to get out of his arm­chair. “Keep your seat,” said his fa­ther warn­ing­ly, in Parsel­tongue.

“Tom,” said the girl’s voice again, now so close they were clear­ly right be­side the house, “I might be wrong — but has some­body nailed a snake to that door?”

“Good lord, you’re right!” said the man’s voice. “That’ll be the son, I told you he’s not right in the head. Don’t look at it, Ce­cil­ia, dar­ling.”

The jin­gling and clop­ping sounds were now grow­ing faint again.

“‘Dar­ling,’” whis­pered Morfin in Parsel­tongue, look­ing at his sis­ter. “‘Dar­ling, he called her. So he wouldn’t have you any­way.”

Merope was so white Har­ry felt sure she was go­ing to faint.

“What’s that?” said Gaunt sharply, al­so in Parsel­tongue, look­ing from his son to his daugh­ter. “What did you say, Morfin?”

“She likes look­ing at that Mug­gle,” said Morfin, a vi­cious ex­pres­sion on his face as he stared at his sis­ter, who now looked ter­ri­fied. “Al­ways in the gar­den when he pass­es, peer­ing through the hedge at him, isn’t she? And last night — “

Merope shook her head jerk­ily, im­plor­ing­ly, but Morfin went on ruth­less­ly, “Hang­ing out of the win­dow wait­ing for him to ride home, wasn’t she?”

“Hang­ing out of the win­dow to look at a Mug­gle?” said Gaunt qui­et­ly.

All three of the Gaunts seemed to have for­got­ten Og­den, who was look­ing both be­wil­dered and ir­ri­tat­ed at this re­newed out­break of in­com­pre­hen­si­ble hiss­ing and rasp­ing.

“Is it true?” said Gaunt in a dead­ly voice, ad­vanc­ing a step or two to­ward the ter­ri­fied girl. “My daugh­ter—pure­blood­ed de­scen­dant of Salazar Slytherin — han­ker­ing af­ter a filthy, dirtveined Mug­gle?”

Merope shook her head fran­ti­cal­ly, press­ing her­self in­to the wall, ap­par­ent­ly un­able to speak.

“But I got him, Fa­ther!” cack­led Morfin. “I got him as he went by and he didn’t look so pret­ty with hives all over him, did he, Merope?”

“You dis­gust­ing lit­tle Squib, you filthy lit­tle blood traitor!” roared Gaunt, los­ing con­trol, and his hands closed around his daugh­ter’s throat.

Both Har­ry and Og­den yelled “No!” at the same time; Og­den raised his wand and cried, “Re­laskio!”

Gaunt was thrown back­ward, away from his daugh­ter; he tripped over a chair and fell flat on his back. With a roar of rage, Morfin leapt out of his chair and ran at Og­den, bran­dish­ing his bloody knife and fir­ing hex­es in­dis­crim­inate­ly from his wand.

Og­den ran for his life. Dum­ble­dore in­di­cat­ed that they ought to fol­low and Har­ry obeyed, Merope’s screams echo­ing in his ears.

Og­den hur­tled up the path and erupt­ed on­to the main lane, his arms over his head, where he col­lid­ed with the glossy chest­nut horse rid­den by a very hand­some, dark­haired young man. Both he and the pret­ty girl rid­ing be­side him on a gray horse roared with laugh­ter at the sight of Og­den, who bounced off the horse’s flank and set off again, his frock coat fly­ing, cov­ered from head to foot in dust, run­ning pellmell up the lane.

“I think that will do, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. He took Har­ry by the el­bow and tugged. Next mo­ment, they were both soar­ing weight­less­ly through dark­ness, un­til they land­ed square­ly on their feet, back in Dum­ble­dore’s now twilit of­fice.

“What hap­pened to the girl in the cot­tage?” said Har­ry at once, as Dum­ble­dore lit ex­tra lamps with a flick of his wand. “Merope, or what­ev­er her name was?”

“Oh, she sur­vived,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­seat­ing him­self be­hind his desk and in­di­cat­ing that Har­ry should sit down too. “Og­den Ap­pa­rat­ed back to the Min­istry and re­turned with re­in­force­ments with­in fif­teen min­utes. Morfin and his fa­ther at­tempt­ed to fight, but both were over­pow­ered, re­moved from the cot­tage, and sub­se­quent­ly con­vict­ed by the Wiz­eng­amot. Morfin, who al­ready had a record of Mug­gle at­tacks, was sen­tenced to three years in Azk­aban. Mar­vo­lo, who had in­ju­red sev­er­al Min­istry em­ploy­ees in ad­di­tion to Og­den, re­ceived six months.”

“Mar­vo­lo?” Har­ry re­peat­ed won­der­ing­ly.

“That’s right,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing in ap­proval. “I am glad to see you’re keep­ing up.”

“That old man was — ?”

“Volde­mort’s grand­fa­ther, yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Mar­vo­lo, his son, Morfin, and his daugh­ter, Merope, were the last of the Gaunts, a very an­cient Wiz­ard­ing fam­ily not­ed for a vein of in­sta­bil­ity and vi­olence that flour­ished through the gen­er­ations due to their habit of mar­ry­ing their own cousins. Lack of sense cou­pled with a great lik­ing for grandeur meant that the fam­ily gold was squan­dered sev­er­al gen­er­ations be­fore Mar­vo­lo was born. He, as you saw, was left in squalor and pover­ty, with a very nasty tem­per, a fan­tas­tic amount of ar­ro­gance and pride, and a cou­ple of fam­ily heir­looms that he trea­sured just as much as his son, and rather more than his daugh­ter.”

“So Merope,” said Har­ry, lean­ing for­ward in his chair and star­ing at Dum­ble­dore, “so Merope was . . . Sir, does that mean she was . . . Volde­mort’s moth­er?”

“It does,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And it so hap­pens that we al­so had a glimpse of Volde­mort’s fa­ther. I won­der whether you no­ticed?”

“The Mug­gle Morfin at­tacked? The man on the horse?”

“Very good in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing. “Yes, that was Tom Rid­dle se­nior, the hand­some Mug­gle who used to go rid­ing past the Gaunt cot­tage and for whom Merope Gaunt cher­ished a se­cret, burn­ing pas­sion.”

“And they end­ed up mar­ried?” Har­ry said in dis­be­lief, un­able to imag­ine two peo­ple less like­ly to fall in love.

“I think you are for­get­ting,” said Dum­ble­dore, “that Merope was a witch. I do not be­lieve that her mag­ical pow­ers ap­peared to their best ad­van­tage when she was be­ing ter­ror­ized by her fa­ther. Once Mar­vo­lo and Morfin were safe­ly in Azk­aban, once she was alone and free for the first time in her life, then, I am sure, she was able to give full rein to her abil­ities and to plot her es­cape from the des­per­ate life she had led for eigh­teen years.”

“Can you not think of any mea­sure Merope could have tak­en to make Tom Rid­dle for­get his Mug­gle com­pan­ion, and fall in love with her in­stead?”

“The Im­perius Curse?” Har­ry sug­gest­ed. “Or a love po­tion?”

“Very good. Per­son­al­ly, I am in­clined to think that she used a love po­tion. I am sure it would have seemed more ro­man­tic to her, and I do not think it would have been very dif­fi­cult, some hot day, when Rid­dle was rid­ing alone, to per­suade him to take a drink of wa­ter. In any case, with­in a few months of the scene we have just wit­nessed, the vil­lage of Lit­tle Hangle­ton en­joyed a tremen­dous scan­dal. You can imag­ine the gos­sip it caused when the squire’s son ran off with the tramp’s daugh­ter, Merope.”

“But the vil­lagers’ shock was noth­ing to Mar­vo­lo’s. He re­turned from Azk­aban, ex­pect­ing to find his daugh­ter du­ti­ful­ly await­ing his re­turn with a hot meal ready on his ta­ble. In­stead, he found a clear inch of dust and her note of farewell, ex­plain­ing what she had done.”

“From all that I have been able to dis­cov­er, he nev­er men­tioned her name or ex­is­tence from that time forth. The shock of her de­ser­tion may have con­trib­ut­ed to his ear­ly death — or per­haps he had sim­ply nev­er learned to feed him­self. Azk­aban had great­ly weak­ened Mar­vo­lo, and he did not live to see Morfin re­turn to the cot­tage.”

“And Merope? She … she died, didn’t she? Wasn’t Volde­mort brought up in an or­phan­age?”

“Yes, in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore. “We must do a cer­tain amount of guess­ing here, al­though I do not think it is dif­fi­cult to de­duce what hap­pened. You see, with­in a few months of their run­away mar­riage, Tom Rid­dle reap­peared at the manor house in Lit­tle Hangle­ton with­out his wife. The ru­mor flew around the neigh­bor­hood that he was talk­ing of be­ing ‘hood­winked’ and ‘tak­en in.’ What he meant, I am sure, is that he had been un­der an en­chant­ment that had now lift­ed, though I dare­say he did not dare use those pre­cise words for fear of be­ing thought in­sane. When they heard what he was say­ing, how­ev­er, the vil­lagers guessed that Merope had lied to Tom Rid­dle, pre­tend­ing that she was go­ing to have his ba­by, and that he had mar­ried her for this rea­son.”

“But she did have his ba­by.”

“But not un­til a year af­ter they were mar­ried. Tom Rid­dle left her while she was still preg­nant.”

“What went wrong?” asked Har­ry. “Why did the love po­tion stop work­ing?”

“Again, this is guess­work,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but I be­lieve that Merope, who was deeply in love with her hus­band, could not bear to con­tin­ue en­slav­ing him by mag­ical means. I be­lieve that she made the choice to stop giv­ing him the po­tion. Per­haps, be­sot­ted as she was, she had con­vinced her­self that he would by now have fall­en in love with her in re­turn. Per­haps she thought he would stay for the ba­by’s sake. If so, she was wrong on both counts. He left her, nev­er saw her again, and nev­er trou­bled to dis­cov­er what be­came of his son.”

The sky out­side was inky black and the lamps in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice seemed to glow more bright­ly than be­fore.

“I think that will do for tonight, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore af­ter a mo­ment or two.

“Yes, sir,” said Har­ry.

He got to his feet, but did not leave.

“Sir … is it im­por­tant to know all this about Volde­mort’s past?”

“Very im­por­tant, I think,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“And it… it’s got some­thing to do with the prophe­cy?”

“It has ev­ery­thing to do with the prophe­cy.”

“Right,” said Har­ry, a lit­tle con­fused, but re­as­sured all the same.

He turned to go, then an­oth­er ques­tion oc­curred to him, and he turned back again. “Sir, am I al­lowed to tell Ron and Hermione ev­ery­thing you’ve told me?”

Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered him for a mo­ment, then said, “Yes, I think Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger have proved them­selves trust­wor­thy. But Har­ry, I am go­ing to ask you to ask them not to re­peat any of this to any­body else. It would not be a good idea if word got around how much I know, or sus­pect, about Lord Volde­mort’s se­crets.”

“No, sir, I’ll make sure it’s just Ron and Hermione. Good night.”

He turned away again, and was al­most at the door when he saw it. Sit­ting on one of the lit­tle spin­dle­legged ta­bles that sup­port­ed so many frail­look­ing sil­ver in­stru­ments, was an ug­ly gold ring set with a large, cracked, black stone.

“Sir,” said Har­ry, star­ing at it. “That ring—”

“Yes?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“You were wear­ing it when we vis­it­ed Pro­fes­sor Slughorn that night.”

“So I was,” Dum­ble­dore agreed.

“But isn’t it… sir, isn’t it the same ring Mar­vo­lo Gaunt showed Og­den?”

Dum­ble­dore bowed his head. “The very same.”

“But how come — ? Have you al­ways had it?”

“No, I ac­quired it very re­cent­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “A few days be­fore I came to fetch you from your aunt and un­cle’s, in fact.”

“That would be around the time you in­ju­red your hand, then, sir?”

“Around that time, yes, Har­ry.”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing.

“Sir, how ex­act­ly — ?”

“Too late, Har­ry! You shall hear the sto­ry an­oth­er time. Good night.”

“Good night, sir.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 11: Hermione’s helping hand


As Hermione had pre­dict­ed, the sixth years’ free pe­ri­ods were not the hours of bliss­ful re­lax­ation Ron had an­tic­ipat­ed, but times in which to at­tempt to keep up with the vast amount of home­work they were be­ing set. Not on­ly were they study­ing as though they had ex­ams ev­ery day, but the lessons them­selves had be­come more de­mand­ing than ev­er be­fore. Har­ry bare­ly un­der­stood half of what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said to them these days; even Hermione had had to ask her to re­peat in­struc­tions once or twice. In­cred­ibly, and to Hermione’s in­creas­ing re­sent­ment, Har­ry’s best sub­ject had sud­den­ly be­come Po­tions, thanks to the Half­Blood Prince.

Non­ver­bal spells were now ex­pect­ed, not on­ly in De­fense Against the Dark Arts, but in Charms and Trans­fig­ura­tion too. Har­ry fre­quent­ly looked over at his class­mates in the com­mon room or at meal­times to see them pur­ple in the face and strain­ing as though they had over­dosed on UN­oPoo; but he knew that they were re­al­ly strug­gling to make spells work with­out say­ing in­can­ta­tions aloud. It was a re­lief to get out­side in­to the green­hous­es; they were deal­ing with more dan­ger­ous plants than ev­er in Her­bol­ogy, but at least they were still al­lowed to swear loud­ly if the Ven­omous Ten­tac­ula seized them un­ex­pect­ed­ly from be­hind.

One re­sult of their enor­mous work­load and the fran­tic hours of prac­tic­ing non­ver­bal spells was that Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had so far been un­able to find time to go and vis­it Ha­grid. He had stopped com­ing to meals at the staff ta­ble, an omi­nous sign, and on the few oc­ca­sions when they had passed him in the cor­ri­dors or out in the grounds, he had mys­te­ri­ous­ly failed to no­tice them or hear their greet­in­gs.

“We’ve got to go and ex­plain,” said Hermione, look­ing up at Ha­grid’s huge emp­ty chair at the staff ta­ble the fol­low­ing Sat­ur­day at break­fast.

“We’ve got Quid­ditch try­outs this morn­ing!” said Ron. “And we’re sup­posed to be prac­tic­ing that Agua­men­ti Charm from Flitwick! Any­way, ex­plain what? How are we go­ing to tell him we hat­ed his stupid sub­ject?”

“We didn’t hate it!” said Hermione.

“Speak for your­self, I haven’t for­got­ten the skrewts,” said Ron dark­ly. “And I’m telling you now, we’ve had a nar­row es­cape. You didn’t hear him go­ing on about his gorm­less broth­er — we’d have been teach­ing Grawp how to tie his shoelaces if we’d stayed.”

“I hate not talk­ing to Ha­grid,” said Hermione, look­ing up­set.

“We’ll go down af­ter Quid­ditch,” Har­ry as­sured her. He too was miss­ing Ha­grid, al­though like Ron he thought that they were bet­ter off with­out Grawp in their lives. “But tri­als might take all morn­ing, the num­ber of peo­ple who have ap­plied.” He felt slight­ly ner­vous at con­fronting the first hur­dle of his Cap­tain­cy. “I dun­no why the team’s this pop­ular all of a sud­den.”

“Oh, come on, Har­ry,” said Hermione, sud­den­ly im­pa­tient. “It’s not Quid­ditch that’s pop­ular, it’s you! You’ve nev­er been more in­ter­est­ing, and frankly, you’ve nev­er been more fan­cia­ble.”

Ron gagged on a large piece of kip­per. Hermione spared him one look of dis­dain be­fore turn­ing back to Har­ry.

“Ev­ery­one knows you’ve been telling the truth now, don’t they? The whole Wiz­ard­ing world has had to ad­mit that you were right about Volde­mort be­ing back and that you re­al­ly have fought him twice in the last two years and es­caped both times. And now they’re call­ing you ‘the Cho­sen One’ — well, come on, can’t you see why peo­ple are fas­ci­nat­ed by you?”

Har­ry was find­ing the Great Hall very hot all of a sud­den, even though the ceil­ing still looked cold and rainy.

“And you’ve been through all that per­se­cu­tion from the Min­istry when they were try­ing to make out you were un­sta­ble and a liar. You can still see the marks on the back of your hand where that evil wom­an made you write with your own blood, but you stuck to your sto­ry any­way. …”

“You can still see where those brains got hold of me in the Min­istry, look,” said Ron, shak­ing back his sleeves.

“And it doesn’t hurt that you’ve grown about a foot over the sum­mer ei­ther,” Hermione fin­ished, ig­nor­ing Ron.

“I’m tall,” said Ron in­con­se­quen­tial­ly.

The post owls ar­rived, swoop­ing down through rain­flecked win­dows, scat­ter­ing ev­ery­one with droplets of wa­ter. Most peo­ple were re­ceiv­ing more post than usu­al; anx­ious par­ents were keen to hear from their chil­dren and to re­as­sure them, in turn, that all was well at home. Har­ry had re­ceived no mail since the start of term; his on­ly reg­ular cor­re­spon­dent was now dead and al­though he had hoped that Lupin might write oc­ca­sion­al­ly, he had so far been dis­ap­point­ed. He was very sur­prised, there­fore, to see the snowy white Hed­wig cir­cling amongst all the brown and gray owls. She land­ed in front of him car­ry­ing a large, square pack­age. A mo­ment lat­er, an iden­ti­cal pack­age land­ed in front of Ron, crush­ing be­neath it his mi­nus­cule and ex­haust­ed owl, Pig­wid­geon.

“Ha!” said Har­ry, un­wrap­ping the par­cel to re­veal a new copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, fresh from Flour­ish and Blotts.

“Oh good,” said Hermione, de­light­ed. “Now you can give that graf­fi­tied copy back.”

“Are you mad?” said Har­ry. “I’m keep­ing it! Look, I’ve thought it out —”

He pulled the old copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and tapped the cov­er with his wand, mut­ter­ing, “Di­jjin­do!” The cov­er fell off. He did the same thing with the brand­new book (Hermione looked scan­dal­ized). He then swapped the cov­ers, tapped each, and said, “Reparo!”

There sat the Prince’s copy, dis­guised as a new book, and there sat the fresh copy from Flour­ish and Blotts, look­ing thor­ough­ly sec­ond­hand.

“I’ll give Slughorn back the new one, he can’t com­plain, it cost nine Galleons.”

Hermione pressed her lips to­geth­er, look­ing an­gry and dis­ap­prov­ing, but was dis­tract­ed by a third owl land­ing in front of her car­ry­ing that day’s copy of the Dai­ly Prophet. She un­fold­ed it hasti­ly and scanned the front page.

“Any­one we know dead?” asked Ron in a de­ter­mined­ly ca­su­al voice; he posed the same ques­tion ev­ery time Hermione opened her pa­per.

“No, but there have been more de­men­tor at­tacks,” said Hermione. “And an ar­rest.”

“Ex­cel­lent, who?” said Har­ry, think­ing of Bel­la­trix Lestrange. “Stan Shun­pike,” said Hermione.

“What?” said Har­ry, star­tled.

“‘Stan­ley Shun­pike, con­duc­tor on the pop­ular Wiz­ard­ing con­veyance the Knight Bus, has been ar­rest­ed on sus­pi­cion of Death Eater ac­tiv­ity. Mr. Shun­pike, 21, was tak­en in­to cus­tody late last night af­ter a raid on his Clapham home. . .’”

“Stan Shun­pike, a Death Eater?” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the spot­ty youth he had first met three years be­fore. “No way!”

“He might have been put un­der the Im­perius Curse,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “You nev­er can tell.”

“It doesn’t look like it,” said Hermione, who was still read­ing. “It says here he was ar­rest­ed af­ter he was over­heard talk­ing about the Death Eaters’ se­cret plans in a pub.” She looked up with a trou­bled ex­pres­sion on her face. “If he was un­der the Im­perius Curse, he’d hard­ly stand around gos­sip­ing about their plans, would he?”

“It sounds like he was try­ing to make out he knew more than he did,” said Ron. “Isn’t he the one who claimed he was go­ing to be­come Min­is­ter of Mag­ic when he was try­ing to chat up those veela?”

“Yeah, that’s him,” said Har­ry. “I dun­no what they’re play­ing at, tak­ing Stan se­ri­ous­ly.”

“They prob­ably want to look as though they’re do­ing some­thing,” said Hermione, frown­ing. “Peo­ple are ter­ri­fied — you know the Patil twins’ par­ents want them to go home? And Eloise Midgen has al­ready been with­drawn. Her fa­ther picked her up last night.”

“What!” said Ron, gog­gling at Hermione. “But Hog­warts is safer than their homes, bound to be! We’ve got Au­rors, and all those ex­tra pro­tec­tive spells, and we’ve got Dum­ble­dore!”

“I don’t think we’ve got him all the time,” said Hermione very qui­et­ly, glanc­ing to­ward the staff ta­ble over the top of the Prophet. “Haven’t you no­ticed? His seat’s been emp­ty as of­ten as Ha­grid’s this past week.”

Har­ry and Ron looked up at the staff ta­ble. The head­mas­ter’s chair was in­deed emp­ty. Now Har­ry came to think of it, he had not seen Dum­ble­dore since their pri­vate les­son a week ago.

“I think he’s left the school to do some­thing with the Or­der,” said Hermione in a low voice. “I mean . . . it’s all look­ing se­ri­ous, isn’t it?”

Har­ry and Ron did not an­swer, but Har­ry knew that they were all think­ing the same thing. There had been a hor­ri­ble in­ci­dent the day be­fore, when Han­nah Ab­bott had been tak­en out of Her­bol­ogy to be told her moth­er had been found dead. They had not seen Han­nah since.

When they left the Gryffind­or ta­ble five min­utes lat­er to head down to the Quid­ditch pitch, they passed Laven­der Brown and Par­vati Patil. Re­mem­ber­ing what Hermione had said about the Patil twins’ par­ents want­ing them to leave Hog­warts, Har­ry was un­sur­prised to see that the two best friends were whis­per­ing to­geth­er, look­ing dis­tressed. What did sur­prise him was that when Ron drew lev­el with them, Par­vati sud­den­ly nudged Laven­der, who looked around and gave Ron a wide smile. Ron blinked at her, then re­turned the smile un­cer­tain­ly. His walk in­stant­ly be­came some­thing more like a strut. Har­ry re­sist­ed the temp­ta­tion to laugh, re­mem­ber­ing that Ron had re­frained from do­ing so af­ter Mal­foy had bro­ken Har­ry’s nose; Hermione, how­ev­er, looked cold and dis­tant all the way down to the sta­di­um through the cool, misty driz­zle, and de­part­ed to find a place in the stands with­out wish­ing Ron good luck.

As Har­ry had ex­pect­ed, the tri­als took most of the morn­ing. Half of Gryffind­or House seemed to have turned up, from first years who were ner­vous­ly clutch­ing a se­lec­tion of the dread­ful old school brooms, to sev­enth years who tow­ered over the rest, look­ing cool­ly in­tim­idat­ing. The lat­ter in­clud­ed a large, wiry­haired boy Har­ry rec­og­nized im­me­di­ate­ly from the Hog­warts Ex­press.

“We met on the train, in old Slug­gy’s com­part­ment,” he said con­fi­dent­ly, step­ping out of the crowd to shake Har­ry’s hand. “Cor­mac McLaggen, Keep­er.”

“You didn’t try out last year, did you?” asked Har­ry, tak­ing note of the breadth of McLaggen and think­ing that he would prob­ably block all three goal hoops with­out even mov­ing.

“I was in the hos­pi­tal wing when they held the tri­als,” said McLaggen, with some­thing of a swag­ger. “Ate a pound of doxy eggs for a bet.”

“Right,” said Har­ry. “Well. . . if you wait over there …” He point­ed over to the edge of the pitch, close to where Hermione was sit­ting. He thought he saw a flick­er of an­noy­an­ce pass over McLaggen’s face and won­dered whether McLaggen ex­pect­ed pref­er­en­tial treat­ment be­cause they were both “old Slug­gy’s” fa­vorites. Har­ry de­cid­ed to start with a ba­sic test, ask­ing all ap­pli­cants for the team to di­vide in­to groups of ten and fly once around the pitch. This was a good de­ci­sion: the first ten was made up of first years, and it could not have been plain­er that they had hard­ly ev­er flown be­fore. On­ly one boy man­aged to re­main air­borne for more than a few sec­onds, and he was so sur­prised he prompt­ly crashed in­to one of the goal posts.

The sec­ond group was com­prised of ten of the sil­li­est girls Har­ry had ev­er en­coun­tered, who, when he blew his whis­tle, mere­ly fell about gig­gling and clutch­ing one an­oth­er. Romil­da Vane was amongst them. When he told them to leave the pitch, they did so quite cheer­ful­ly and went to sit in the stands to heck­le ev­ery­one else.

The third group had a pile­up halfway around the pitch. Most of the fourth group had come with­out broom­sticks. The fifth group were Huf­flepuffs.

“If there’s any­one else here who’s not from Gryffind­or,” roared Har­ry, who was start­ing to get se­ri­ous­ly an­noyed, “leave now, please!

There was a pause, then a cou­ple of lit­tle Raven­claws went sprint­ing off the pitch, snort­ing with laugh­ter.

Af­ter two hours, many com­plaints, and sev­er­al tantrums, one in­volv­ing a crashed Comet Two Six­ty and sev­er­al bro­ken teeth, Har­ry had found him­self three Chasers: Katie Bell, re­turned to the team af­ter an ex­cel­lent tri­al; a new find called Demelza Robins, who was par­tic­ular­ly good at dodg­ing Bludgers; and Gin­ny Weasley, who had out­flown all the com­pe­ti­tion and scored sev­en­teen goals to boot. Pleased though he was with his choic­es, Har­ry had al­so shout­ed him­self hoarse at the many com­plain­ers and was now en­dur­ing a sim­ilar bat­tle with the re­ject­ed Beat­ers.

“That’s my fi­nal de­ci­sion and if you don’t get out of the way of the Keep­ers I’ll hex you,” he bel­lowed.

Nei­ther of his cho­sen Beat­ers had the old bril­liance of Fred and George, but he was still rea­son­ably pleased with them: Jim­my Peakes, a short but broad­ch­est­ed thirdyear boy who had man­aged to raise a lump the size of an egg on the back of Har­ry’s head with a fe­ro­cious­ly hit Bludger, and Ritchie Coote, who looked weedy but aimed well. They now joined Katie, Demelza, and Gin­ny in the stands to watch the se­lec­tion of their last team mem­ber.

Har­ry had de­lib­er­ate­ly left the tri­al of the Keep­ers un­til last, hop­ing for an emp­ti­er sta­di­um and less pres­sure on all con­cerned. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, all the re­ject­ed play­ers and a num­ber of peo­ple who had come down to watch af­ter a lengthy break­fast had joined the crowd by now, so that it was larg­er than ev­er. As each Keep­er flew up to the goal hoops, the crowd roared and jeered in equal mea­sure. Har­ry glanced over at Ron, who had al­ways had a prob­lem with nerves; Har­ry had hoped that win­ning their fi­nal match last term might have cured it, but ap­par­ent­ly not: Ron was a del­icate shade of green.

None of the first five ap­pli­cants saved more than two goals apiece. To Har­ry’s great dis­ap­point­ment, Cor­mac McLaggen saved four pe­nal­ties out of five. On the last one, how­ev­er, he shot off in com­plete­ly the wrong di­rec­tion; the crowd laughed and booed and McLaggen re­turned to the ground grind­ing his teeth.

Ron looked ready to pass out as he mount­ed his Clean­sweep Eleven. “Good luck!” cried a voice from the stands. Har­ry looked around, ex­pect­ing to see Hermione, but it was Laven­der Brown. He would have quite liked to have hid­den his face in his hands, as she did a mo­ment lat­er, but thought that as the Cap­tain he ought to show slight­ly more grit, and so turned to watch Ron do his tri­al.

Yet he need not have wor­ried: Ron saved one, two, three, four, five pe­nal­ties in a row. De­light­ed, and re­sist­ing join­ing in the cheers of the crowd with dif­fi­cul­ty, Har­ry turned to McLaggen to tell him that, most un­for­tu­nate­ly, Ron had beat­en him, on­ly to find McLaggen’s red face inch­es from his own. He stepped back hasti­ly.

“His sis­ter didn’t re­al­ly try,” said McLaggen men­ac­ing­ly. There was a vein puls­ing in his tem­ple like the one Har­ry had of­ten ad­mired in Un­cle Ver­non’s. “She gave him an easy save.”

“Rub­bish,” said Har­ry cold­ly. “That was the one he near­ly missed.”

McLaggen took a step near­er Har­ry, who stood his ground this time.

“Give me an­oth­er go.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “You’ve had your go. You saved four. Ron saved five. Ron’s Keep­er, he won it fair and square. Get out of my way.”

He thought for a mo­ment that McLaggen might punch him, but he con­tent­ed him­self with an ug­ly gri­mace and stormed away, growl­ing what sound­ed like threats to thin air.

Har­ry turned around to find his new team beam­ing at him.

“Well done,” he croaked. “You flew re­al­ly well —”

“You did bril­liant­ly, Ron!”

This time it re­al­ly was Hermione run­ning to­ward them from the stands; Har­ry saw Laven­der walk­ing off the pitch, arm in arm with Par­vati, a rather grumpy ex­pres­sion on her face. Ron looked ex­treme­ly pleased with him­self and even taller than usu­al as he grinned at the team and at Hermione.

Af­ter fix­ing the time of their first full prac­tice for the fol­low­ing Thurs­day, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione bade good­bye to the rest of the team and head­ed off to­ward Ha­grid’s. A wa­tery sun was try­ing to break through the clouds now and it had stopped driz­zling at last. Har­ry felt ex­treme­ly hun­gry; he hoped there would be some­thing to eat at Ha­grid’s.

“I thought I was go­ing to miss that fourth pe­nal­ty,” Ron was say­ing hap­pi­ly. “Tricky shot from Demelza, did you see, had a bit of spin on it —”

“Yes, yes, you were mag­nif­icent,” said Hermione, look­ing amused.

“I was bet­ter than that McLaggen any­way,” said Ron in a high­ly sat­is­fied voice. “Did you see him lum­ber­ing off in the wrong di­rec­tion on his fifth? Looked like he’d been Con­fund­ed. …”

To Har­ry’s sur­prise, Hermione turned a very deep shade of pink at these words. Ron no­ticed noth­ing; he was too busy de­scrib­ing each of his oth­er pe­nal­ties in lov­ing de­tail.

The great gray hip­pogriff, Buck­beak, was teth­ered in front of Ha­grid’s cab­in. He clicked his ra­zor­sharp beak at their ap­proach and turned his huge head to­ward them.

“Oh dear,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly. “He’s still a bit scary, isn’t he?”

“Come off it, you’ve rid­den him, haven’t you?” said Ron. Har­ry stepped for­ward and bowed low to the hip­pogriff with­out break­ing eye con­tact or blink­ing. Af­ter a few sec­onds, Buck­beak sank in­to a bow too.

“How are you?” Har­ry asked him in a low voice, mov­ing for­ward to stroke the feath­ery head. “Miss­ing him? But you’re okay here with Ha­grid, aren’t you?”

“Oi!” said a loud voice.

Ha­grid had come strid­ing around the cor­ner of his cab­in wear­ing a large flow­ery apron and car­ry­ing a sack of pota­toes. His enor­mous boarhound, Fang, was at his heels; Fang gave a boom­ing bark and bound­ed for­ward.

“Git away from him! He’ll have yer fin­gers — oh. It’s yeh lot.”

Fang was jump­ing up at Hermione and Ron, at­tempt­ing to lick their ears. Ha­grid stood and looked at them all for a split sec­ond, then turned and strode in­to his cab­in, slam­ming the door be­hind him.

“Oh dear!” said Hermione, look­ing strick­en.

“Don’t wor­ry about it,” said Har­ry grim­ly. He walked over to the door and knocked loud­ly. “Ha­grid! Open up, we want to talk to you!”

There was no sound from with­in.

“If you don’t open the door, we’ll blast it open!” Har­ry said, pulling out his wand.

“Har­ry!” said Hermione, sound­ing shocked. “You can’t pos­si­bly —”

“Yeah, I can!” said Har­ry. “Stand back —”

But be­fore he could say any­thing else, the door flew open again as Har­ry had known it would, and there stood Ha­grid, glow­er­ing down at him and look­ing, de­spite the flow­ery apron, pos­itive­ly alarm­ing.

“I’m a teach­er!” he roared at Har­ry. “A teach­er, Pot­ter! How dare yeh threat­en ter break down my door!”

“I’m sor­ry, sir” said Har­ry, em­pha­siz­ing the last word as he stowed his wand in­side his robes.

Ha­grid looked stunned. “Since when have yeh called me ’sir’?”

“Since when have you called me ‘Pot­ter’?”

“Oh, very clever,” growled Ha­grid. “Very amusin’. That’s me out­smart­ed, in­nit? All righ’, come in then, yeh un­grate­ful lit­tle . . .”

Mum­bling dark­ly, he stood back to let them pass. Hermione scur­ried in af­ter Har­ry, look­ing rather fright­ened.

“Well?” said Ha­grid grumpi­ly, as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sat down around his enor­mous wood­en ta­ble, Fang lay­ing his head im­me­di­ate­ly up­on Har­ry’s knee and drool­ing all over his robes. “What’s this? Feel­in’ sor­ry for me? Reck­on I’m lone­ly or sum­mat?”

“No,” said Har­ry at once. “We want­ed to see you.”

“We’ve missed you!” said Hermione tremu­lous­ly.

“Missed me, have yeh?” snort­ed Ha­grid. “Yeah. Righ’.”

He stomped around, brew­ing up tea in his enor­mous cop­per ket­tle, mut­ter­ing all the while. Fi­nal­ly he slammed down three buck­et­sized mugs of ma­hogany­brown tea in front of them and a plate of his rock cakes. Har­ry was hun­gry enough even for Ha­grid’s cook­ing, and took one at once.

“Ha­grid,” said Hermione timid­ly, when he joined them at the ta­ble and start­ed peel­ing his pota­toes with a bru­tal­ity that sug­gest­ed that each tu­ber had done him a great per­son­al wrong, “we re­al­ly want­ed to car­ry on with Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, you know.” Ha­grid gave an­oth­er great snort. Har­ry rather thought some bo­geys land­ed on the pota­toes, and was in­ward­ly thank­ful that they were not stay­ing for din­ner.

“We did!” said Hermione. “But none of us could fit it in­to our sched­ules!”

“Yeah. Righ’,” said Ha­grid again.

There was a fun­ny squelch­ing sound and they all looked around: Hermione let out a tiny shriek, and Ron leapt out of his seat and hur­ried around the ta­ble away from the large bar­rel stand­ing in the cor­ner that they had on­ly just no­ticed. It was full of what looked like foot­long mag­gots, slimy, white, and writhing.

“What are they, Ha­grid?” asked Har­ry, try­ing to sound in­ter­est­ed rather than re­volt­ed, but putting down his rock cake all the same.

“Jus’ gi­ant grubs,” said Ha­grid.

“And they grow in­to … ?” said Ron, look­ing ap­pre­hen­sive.

“They won’ grow in­ter nuthin’,” said Ha­grid. “I got ‘em ter feed ter Ar­agog.”

And with­out warn­ing, he burst in­to tears.

“Ha­grid!” cried Hermione, leap­ing up, hur­ry­ing around the ta­ble the long way to avoid the bar­rel of mag­gots, and putting an arm around his shak­ing shoul­ders. “What is it?”

“It’s. . . him . ..” gulped Ha­grid, his bee­tle­black eyes stream­ing as he mopped his face with his apron. “It’s . . . Ar­agog. … I think he’s dyin’. . , . He got ill over the sum­mer an’ he’s not get­tin’ bet­ter…. I don’ know what I’ll do if he … if he … We’ve bin ter­geth­er so long. …”

Hermione pat­ted Ha­grid’s shoul­der, look­ing at a com­plete loss for any­thing to say. Har­ry knew how she felt. He had known Ha­grid to present a vi­cious ba­by drag­on with a ted­dy bear, seen him croon over gi­ant scor­pi­ons with suck­ers and stingers, at­tempt to rea­son with his bru­tal gi­ant of a half­broth­er, but this was per­haps the most in­com­pre­hen­si­ble of all his mon­ster fan­cies: the gi­gan­tic talk­ing spi­der, Ar­agog, who dwelled deep in the For­bid­den For­est and which he and Ron had on­ly nar­row­ly es­caped four years pre­vi­ous­ly.

“Is there — is there any­thing we can do?” Hermione asked, ig­nor­ing Ron’s fran­tic gri­maces and head­shak­in­gs.

“I don’ think there is, Hermione,” choked Ha­grid, at­tempt­ing to stem the flood of his tears. “See, the rest o’ the tribe … Ar­agog’s fam­ily . . . they’re get­tin’ a bit fun­ny now he’s ill… bit restive …”

“Yeah, I think we saw a bit of that side of them,” said Ron in an un­der­tone.

“… I don’ reck­on it’d be safe fer any­one but me ter go near the colony at the mo’,” Ha­grid fin­ished, blow­ing his nose hard on his apron and look­ing up. “But thanks fer of­ferin’, Hermione. … It means a lot.”

Af­ter that, the at­mo­sphere light­ened con­sid­er­ably, for al­though nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron had shown any in­cli­na­tion to go and feed gi­ant grubs to a mur­der­ous, gar­gan­tu­an spi­der, Ha­grid seemed to take it for grant­ed that they would have liked to have done and be­came his usu­al self once more.

“Ar, I al­ways knew yeh’d find it hard ter squeeze me in­ter yer timeta­bles,” he said gruffly, pour­ing them more tea. “Even if yeh ap­plied fer Time­Turn­ers —”

“We couldn’t have done,” said Hermione. “We smashed the en­tire stock of Min­istry Time­Turn­ers when we were there last sum­mer. It was in the Dai­ly Prophet.”

“Ar, well then,” said Ha­grid. “There’s no way yeh could’ve done it. … I’m sor­ry I’ve bin — yeh know — I’ve jus’ bin wor­ried about Ar­agog … an I did won­der whether, if Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly­Plank had bin teachin’ yeh —”

At which all three of them stat­ed cat­egor­ical­ly and un­truth­ful­ly that Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly­Plank, who had sub­sti­tut­ed for Ha­grid a few times, was a dread­ful teach­er, with the re­sult that by the time Ha­grid waved them off the premis­es at dusk, he looked quite cheer­ful.

“I’m starv­ing,” said Har­ry, once the door had closed be­hind them and they were hur­ry­ing through the dark and de­sert­ed grounds; he had aban­doned the rock cake af­ter an omi­nous crack­ing noise from one of his back teeth. “And I’ve got that de­ten­tion with Snape tonight, I haven’t got much time for din­ner.”

As they came in­to the cas­tle they spot­ted Cor­mac McLaggen en­ter­ing the Great Hall. It took him two at­tempts to get through the doors; he ric­ocheted off the frame on the first at­tempt. Ron mere­ly guf­fawed gloat­ing­ly and strode off in­to the Hall af­ter him, but Har­ry caught Hermione’s arm and held her back.

“What?” said Hermione de­fen­sive­ly.

“If you ask me,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly, “McLaggen looks like he was Con­fund­ed this morn­ing. And he was stand­ing right in front of where you were sit­ting.”

Hermione blushed.

“Oh, all right then, I did it,” she whis­pered. “But you should have heard the way he was talk­ing about Ron and Gin­ny! Any­way, he’s got a nasty tem­per, you saw how he re­act­ed when he didn’t get in — you wouldn’t have want­ed some­one like that on the team.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “No, I sup­pose that’s true. But wasn’t that dis­hon­est, Hermione? I mean, you’re a pre­fect, aren’t you?”

“Oh, be qui­et,” she snapped, as he smirked.

“What are you two do­ing?” de­mand­ed Ron, reap­pear­ing in the door­way to the Great Hall and look­ing sus­pi­cious.

“Noth­ing,” said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er, and they hur­ried af­ter Ron. The smell of roast beef made Har­ry’s stom­ach ache with hunger, but they had bare­ly tak­en three steps to­ward the Gryffind­or ta­ble when Pro­fes­sor Slughorn ap­peared in front of them, block­ing their path.

“Har­ry, Har­ry, just the man I was hop­ing to see!” he boomed ge­nial­ly, twid­dling the ends of his wal­rus mus­tache and puff­ing out his enor­mous bel­ly, “I was hop­ing to catch you be­fore din­ner! What do you say to a spot of sup­per tonight in my rooms in­stead? We’re hav­ing a lit­tle par­ty, just a few ris­ing stars, I’ve got McLaggen com­ing and Zabi­ni, the charm­ing Melin­da Bob­bin — I don’t know whether you know her? Her fam­ily owns a large chain of apothe­caries — and, of course, I hope very much that Miss Granger will fa­vor me by com­ing too.”

Slughorn made Hermione a lit­tle bow as he fin­ished speak­ing. It was as though Ron was not present; Slughorn did not so much as look at him.

“I can’t come, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry at once. “I’ve got a de­ten­tion with Pro­fes­sor Snape.”

“Oh dear!” said Slughorn, his face falling com­ical­ly. “Dear, dear, I was count­ing on you, Har­ry! Well, now, I’ll just have to have a word with Severus and ex­plain the sit­ua­tion. I’m sure I’ll be able to per­suade him to post­pone your de­ten­tion. Yes, I’ll see you both lat­er!” He bus­tled away out of the Hall.

“He’s got no chance of per­suad­ing Snape,” said Har­ry, the mo­ment Slughorn was out of earshot. “This de­ten­tion’s al­ready been post­poned once; Snape did it for Dum­ble­dore, but he won’t do it for any­one else.”

“Oh, I wish you could come, I don’t want to go on my own!” said Hermione anx­ious­ly; Har­ry knew that she was think­ing about McLaggen.

“I doubt you’ll be alone, Gin­ny’ll prob­ably be in­vit­ed,” snapped Ron, who did not seem to have tak­en kind­ly to be­ing ig­nored by Slughorn.

Af­ter din­ner they made their way back to Gryffind­or Tow­er. The com­mon room was very crowd­ed, as most peo­ple had fin­ished din­ner by now, but they man­aged to find a free ta­ble and sat down; Ron, who had been in a bad mood ev­er since the en­counter with Slughorn, fold­ed his arms and frowned at the ceil­ing. Hermione reached out for a copy of the Evening Prophet, which some­body had left aban­doned on a chair.

“Any­thing new?” said Har­ry.

“Not re­al­ly. . .” Hermione had opened the news­pa­per and was scan­ning the in­side pages. “Oh, look, your dad’s in here, Ron — he’s all right!” she added quick­ly, for Ron had looked around in alarm. “It just says he’s been to vis­it the Mal­foys’ house. ‘This sec­ond search of the Death Eaters res­idence does not seem to have yield­ed any re­sults. Arthur Weasley of the Of­fice for the De­tec­tion and Con­fis­ca­tion of Coun­ter­feit De­fen­sive Spells and Pro­tec­tive Ob­jects said that his team had been act­ing up­on a con­fi­den­tial tipoff.’”

“Yeah, mine!” said Har­ry. “I told him at Kings Cross about Mal­foy and that thing he was try­ing to get Bor­gin to fix! Well, if it’s not at their house, he must have brought what­ev­er it is to Hog­warts with him —”

“But how can he have done, Har­ry?” said Hermione, putting down the news­pa­per with a sur­prised look. “We were all searched when we ar­rived, weren’t we?”

“Were you?” said Har­ry, tak­en aback. “I wasn’t!”

“Oh no, of course you weren’t, I for­got you were late. Well, Filch ran over all of us with Se­cre­cy Sen­sors when we got in­to the en­trance hall. Any Dark ob­ject would have been found, I know for a fact Crabbe had a shrunk­en head con­fis­cat­ed. So you see, Mal­foy can’t have brought in any­thing dan­ger­ous!”

Mo­men­tar­ily stymied, Har­ry watched Gin­ny Weasley play­ing with Arnold the Pygmy Puff for a while be­fore see­ing a way around this ob­jec­tion.

“Some­one’s sent it to him by owl, then,” he said. “His moth­er or some­one.”

“All the owls are be­ing checked too,” said Hermione. “Filch told us so when he was jab­bing those Se­cre­cy Sen­sors ev­ery­where he could reach.”

Re­al­ly stumped this time, Har­ry found noth­ing else to say. There did not seem to be any way Mal­foy could have brought a dan­ger­ous or Dark ob­ject in­to the school. He looked hope­ful­ly at Ron, who was sit­ting with his arms fold­ed, star­ing over at Laven­der Brown.

“Can you think of any way Mal­foy — ?”

“Oh, drop it, Har­ry,” said Ron.

“Lis­ten, it’s not my fault Slughorn in­vit­ed Hermione and me to his stupid par­ty, nei­ther of us want­ed to go, you know!” said Har­ry, fir­ing up.

“Well, as I’m not in­vit­ed to any par­ties,” said Ron, get­ting to his feet again, “I think I’ll go to bed.”

He stomped off to­ward the door to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries, leav­ing Har­ry and Hermione star­ing af­ter him.

“Har­ry?” said the new Chas­er, Demelza Robins, ap­pear­ing sud­den­ly at his shoul­der. “I’ve got a mes­sage for you.”

“From Pro­fes­sor Slughorn?” asked Har­ry, sit­ting up hope­ful­ly.

“No … from Pro­fes­sor Snape,” said Demelza. Har­ry’s heart sank. “He says you’re to come to his of­fice at half past eight tonight to do your de­ten­tion — er — no mat­ter how many par­ty in­vi­ta­tions you’ve re­ceived. And he want­ed you to know you’ll be sort­ing out rot­ten flob­ber­worms from good ones, to use in Po­tions and — and he says there’s no need to bring pro­tec­tive gloves.”

“Right,” said Har­ry grim­ly. “Thanks a lot, Demelza.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 12: Silver and opals


Where was Dum­ble­dore, and what was he do­ing?

Har­ry caught sight of the head­mas­ter on­ly twice over the next few weeks. He rarely ap­peared at meals any­more, and Har­ry was sure Hermione was right in think­ing that he was leav­ing the school for days at a time. Had Dum­ble­dore for­got­ten the lessons he was sup­posed to be giv­ing Har­ry? Dum­ble­dore had said that the lessons were lead­ing to some­thing to do with the prophe­cy; Har­ry had felt bol­stered, com­fort­ed, and now he felt slight­ly aban­doned.

Halfway through Oc­to­ber came their first trip of the term to Hogsmeade. Har­ry had won­dered whether these trips would still be al­lowed, giv­en the in­creas­ing­ly tight se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures around the school, but was pleased to know that they were go­ing ahead; it was al­ways good to get out of the cas­tle grounds for a few hours.

Har­ry woke ear­ly on the morn­ing of the trip, which was prov­ing stormy, and whiled away the time un­til break­fast by read­ing his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. He did not usu­al­ly lie in bed read­ing his text­books; that sort of be­hav­ior, as Ron right­ly said, was in­de­cent in any­body ex­cept Hermione, who was sim­ply weird that way. Har­ry felt, how­ev­er, that the Half­Blood Princes copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing hard­ly qual­ified as a text­book. The more Har­ry pored over the book, the more he re­al­ized how much was in there, not on­ly the handy hints and short­cuts on po­tions that was earn­ing him such a glow­ing rep­uta­tion with Slughorn, but al­so the imag­ina­tive lit­tle jinx­es and hex­es scrib­bled in the mar­gins, which Har­ry was sure, judg­ing by the cross­in­gsout and re­vi­sions, that the Prince had in­vent­ed him­self.

Har­ry had al­ready at­tempt­ed a few of the Prince’s self­in­vent­ed spells. There had been a hex that caused toe­nails to grow alarm­ing­ly fast (he had tried this on Crabbe in the cor­ri­dor, with very en­ter­tain­ing re­sults); a jinx that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth (which he had twice used, to gen­er­al ap­plause, on an un­sus­pect­ing Ar­gus Filch); and, per­haps most use­ful of all, Muf­flia­to, a spell that filled the ears of any­one near­by with an uniden­ti­fi­able buzzing, so that lengthy con­ver­sa­tions could be held in class with out be­ing over­heard. The on­ly per­son who did not find these charms amus­ing was Hermione, who main­tained a rigid­ly dis­ap­prov­ing ex­pres­sion through­out and re­fused to talk at all if Har­ry had used the Muf­flia­to spell on any­one in the vicin­ity.

Sit­ting up in bed, Har­ry turned the book side­ways so as to ex­am­ine more close­ly the scrib­bled in­struc­tions for a spell that seemed to have caused the Prince some trou­ble. There were many cross­in­gsout and al­ter­ations, but fi­nal­ly, crammed in­to a cor­ner of the page, the scrib­ble:

Lev­icor­pus (nvbl)

While the wind and sleet pound­ed re­lent­less­ly on the win­dows, and Neville snored loud­ly, Har­ry stared at the let­ters in brack­ets. Nvbl . . that had to mean “non­ver­bal.” Har­ry rather doubt­ed he would be able to bring off this par­tic­ular spell; he was still hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty with non­ver­bal spells, some­thing Snape had been quick to com­ment on in ev­ery D.A.D.A. class. On the oth­er hand, the Prince had proved a much more ef­fec­tive teach­er than Snape so far.

Point­ing his wand at noth­ing in par­tic­ular, he gave it an up­ward flick and said Lev­icor­pus! in­side his head. “Aaaaaaaargh!”

There was a flash of light and the room was full of voic­es: Ev­ery­one had wo­ken up as Ron had let out a yell. Har­ry sent Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing fly­ing in pan­ic; Ron was dan­gling up­side down in midair as though an in­vis­ible hook had hoist­ed him up by the an­kle.

“Sor­ry!” yelled Har­ry, as Dean and Sea­mus roared with laugh­ter, and Neville picked him­self up from the floor, hav­ing fall­en out of Bed. “Hang on — I’ll let you down —”

He groped for the po­tion book and rif­fled through it in a pan­ic, try­ing to find the right page; at last he lo­cat­ed it and de­ci­phered the cramped word un­der­neath the spell: Pray­ing that this was the coun­ter­jinx, Har­ry thought Lib­er­acor­pus! with all his might. There was an­oth­er flash of light, and Ron fell in a heap on­to his mat­tress.

“Sor­ry,” re­peat­ed Har­ry weak­ly, while Dean and Sea­mus con­tin­ued to roar with laugh­ter.

“To­mor­row,” said Ron in a muf­fled voice, “I’d rather you set the alarm clock.”

By the time they had got dressed, padding them­selves out with sev­er­al of Mrs. Weasleys hand­knit­ted sweaters and car­ry­ing cloaks, scarves, and gloves, Ron’s shock had sub­sid­ed and he had de­cid­ed that Har­ry’s new spell was high­ly amus­ing; so amus­ing, in fact, that he lost no time in re­gal­ing Hermione with the sto­ry as they sat down for break­fast.

“… and then there was an­oth­er flash, of light and I land­ed on the bed again!” Ron grinned, help­ing him­self to sausages.

Hermione had not cracked a smile dur­ing this anec­dote, and now turned an ex­pres­sion of win­try dis­ap­proval up­on Har­ry.

“Was this spell, by any chance, an­oth­er one from that po­tion book of yours?” she asked.

Har­ry frowned at her.

“Al­ways jump to the worst con­clu­sion, don’t you?”

“Was it?”

“Well. . . yeah, it was, but so what?”

“So you just de­cid­ed to try out an un­known, hand­writ­ten in­can­ta­tion and see what would hap­pen?”

“Why does it mat­ter if it’s hand­writ­ten?” said Har­ry, pre­fer­ring not to an­swer the rest of the ques­tion.

“Be­cause it’s prob­ably not Min­istry of Mag­ic ap­proved,” said Hermione. “And al­so,” she added, as Har­ry and Ron rolled their eyes, “be­cause I’m start­ing to think this Prince char­ac­ter was a bit dodgy.”

Both Har­ry and Ron shout­ed her down at once.

“It was a laugh!” said Ron, up­end­ing a ketchup bot­tle over his sausages. “Just a laugh, Hermione, that’s all!”

“Dan­gling peo­ple up­side down by the an­kle?” said Her­mi­one. “Who puts their time and en­er­gy in­to mak­ing up spells like that?”

“Fred and George,” said Ron, shrug­ging, “it’s their kind of thing. And, er—”

“My dad,” said Har­ry. He had on­ly just re­mem­bered.

“What?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er.

“My dad used this spell,” said Har­ry. “I — Lupin told me.”

‘This last part was not true; in fact, Har­ry had seen his fa­ther use the spell on Snape, but he had nev­er told Ron and Hermione about that par­tic­ular ex­cur­sion in­to the Pen­sieve. Now, how­ev­er, a won­der­ful pos­si­bil­ity oc­curred to him. Could the Half­Blood Prince pos­si­bly be — ?

“Maybe your dad did use it, Har­ry,” said Hermione, “but he’s not the on­ly one. We’ve seen a whole bunch of peo­ple use it, in case you’ve for­got­ten. Dan­gling peo­ple in the air. Mak­ing them float along, asleep, help­less.”

Har­ry stared at her. With a sink­ing feel­ing, he too re­mem­bered the be­hav­ior of the Death Eaters at the Quid­ditch World Cup. Ron came to his aid.

“That was dif­fer­ent,” he said ro­bust­ly. “They were abus­ing it. Har­ry and his dad were just hav­ing a laugh. You don’t like the Prince, Hermione,” he added, point­ing a sausage at her stern­ly, “be­cause he’s bet­ter than you at Po­tions —”

“It’s got noth­ing to do with that!” said Hermione, her cheeks red­den­ing. “I just think it’s very ir­re­spon­si­ble to start per­form­ing spells when you don’t even know what they’re for, and stop talk­ing about ‘the Prince’ as if it’s his ti­tle, I bet it’s just a stupid nick­name, and it doesn’t seem as though he was a very nice per­son to me!”

“I don’t see where you get that from,” said Har­ry heat­ed­ly. “If he’d been a bud­ding Death Eater he wouldn’t have been boast­ing about be­ing ‘half­blood,’ would he?”

Even as he said it, Har­ry re­mem­bered that his fa­ther had been pure­blood, but he pushed the thought out of his mind; he would wor­ry about that lat­er.

“The Death Eaters can’t all be pure­blood, there aren’t enough pure­blood wiz­ards left,” said Hermione stub­born­ly. “I ex­pect most of them are half­bloods pre­tend­ing to be pure. It’s on­ly Mug­gle­borns they hate, they’d be quite hap­py to let you and Ron join up.”

“There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said Ron in­dig­nant­ly, a bit of sausage fly­ing off the fork he was now bran­dish­ing at Hermione and hit­ting Ernie Macmil­lan on the head. “My whole fam­ily are blood traitors! That’s as bad as Mug­gle­borns to Death Eaters!”

“And they’d love to have me,” said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep try­ing to do me in.”

This made Ron laugh; even Hermione gave a grudg­ing smile, and a dis­trac­tion ar­rived in the shape of Gin­ny.

“Hey, Har­ry, I’m sup­posed to give you this.”

It was a scroll of parch­ment with Har­ry’s name writ­ten up­on it in fa­mil­iar thin, slant­ing writ­ing.

“Thanks, Gin­ny. . . It’s Dum­ble­dore’s next les­son!” Har­ry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the parch­ment and quick­ly read­ing its con­tents. “Mon­day evening!” He felt sud­den­ly light and hap­py. “Want to join us in Hogsmeade, Gin­ny?” he asked.

“I’m go­ing with Dean — might see you there,” she replied, wav­ing at them as she left.

Filch was stand­ing at the oak front doors as usu­al, check­ing off the names of peo­ple who had per­mis­sion to go in­to Hogsmeade. The pro­cess took even longer than nor­mal as Filch was triplecheck­ing ev­ery­body with his Se­cre­cy Sen­sor.

“What does it mat­ter if we’re smug­gling Dark stuff OUT?” de­mand­ed Ron, eye­ing the long thin Se­cre­cy Sen­sor with ap­pre­hen­sion. “Sure­ly you ought to be check­ing what we bring back IN?”

His cheek earned him a few ex­tra jabs with the Sen­sor, and he was still winc­ing as they stepped out in­to the wind and sleet.

The walk in­to Hogsmeade was not en­joy­able. Har­ry wrapped his scarf over his low­er face; the ex­posed part soon felt both raw and numb. The road to the vil­lage was full of stu­dents bent dou­ble against the bit­ter wind. More than once Har­ry won­dered whether they might not have had a bet­ter time in the warm com­mon room, and when they fi­nal­ly reached Hogsmeade and saw that Zonko’s Joke Shop had been board­ed up, Har­ry took it as con­fir­ma­tion that this trip was not des­tined to be fun. Ron point­ed, with a thick­ly gloved hand, to­ward Hon­ey­dukes, which was mer­ci­ful­ly open, and Har­ry and Hermione stag­gered in his wake in­to the crowd­ed shop.

“Thank God,” shiv­ered Ron as they were en­veloped by warm, tof­feescent­ed air. “Let’s stay here all af­ter­noon.”

“Har­ry, m’boy!” said a boom­ing voice from be­hind them.

“Oh no,” mut­tered Har­ry. The three of them turned to see Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, who was wear­ing an enor­mous fur­ry hat and an over­coat with match­ing fur col­lar, clutch­ing a large bag of crys­tal­ized pineap­ple, and oc­cu­py­ing at least a quar­ter of the shop.

“Har­ry, that’s three of my lit­tle sup­pers you’ve missed now!” said Slughorn, pok­ing him ge­nial­ly in the chest. “It won’t do, m’boy, I’m de­ter­mined to have you! Miss Granger loves them, don’t you?”

“Yes,” said Hermione help­less­ly, “they’re re­al­ly —”

“So why don’t you come along, Har­ry?” de­mand­ed Slughorn.

“Well, I’ve had Quid­ditch prac­tice, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, who had in­deed been schedul­ing prac­tices ev­ery time Slughorn had sent him a lit­tle, vi­olet rib­bonadorned in­vi­ta­tion. This strat­egy meant that Ron was not left out, and they usu­al­ly had a laugh with Gin­ny, imag­in­ing Hermione shut up with McLaggen and Zabi­ni.

“Well, I cer­tain­ly ex­pect you to win your first match af­ter all the hard work!” said Slughorn. “But a lit­tle recre­ation nev­er hurt any body. Now, how about Mon­day night, you can’t pos­si­bly want to prac­tice in this weath­er….”

“I can’t, Pro­fes­sor, I’ve got — er — an ap­point­ment with Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore that evening.”

“Un­lucky again!” cried Slughorn dra­mat­ical­ly. “Ah, well . . . you can’t evade me for­ev­er, Har­ry!”

And with a re­gal wave, he wad­dled out of the shop, tak­ing as lit­tle no­tice of Ron as though he had been a dis­play of Cock­roach Clus­ters.

“I can’t be­lieve you’ve wrig­gled out of an­oth­er one,” said Hermione, shak­ing her head. “They’re not that bad, you know. . . They’re even quite fun some­times. . . .” But then she caught sight of Ron’s ex­pres­sion. “Oh, look — they’ve got deluxe sug­ar quills — those would last hours!”

Glad that Hermione had changed the sub­ject, Har­ry showed much more in­ter­est in the new ex­tralarge sug­ar quills than he would nor­mal­ly have done, but Ron con­tin­ued to look moody and mere­ly shrugged when Hermione asked him where he want­ed to go next.

“Let’s go to the Three Broom­sticks,” said Har­ry. “It’ll be warm.”

They bun­dled their scarves back over their faces and left the sweet­shop. The bit­ter wind was like knives on their faces af­ter the sug­ary warmth of Hon­ey­dukes. The street was not very busy; no­body was lin­ger­ing to chat, just hur­ry­ing to­ward their des­ti­na­tions. The ex­cep­tions were two men a lit­tle ahead of them, stand­ing just out­side the Three Broom­sticks. One was very tall and thin; squint­ing through his rain­washed glass­es Har­ry rec­og­nized the bar­man who worked in the oth­er Hogsmeade pub, the Hog’s Head. As Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione drew clos­er, the bar­man drew his cloak more tight­ly around his neck and walked away, leav­ing the short­er man to fum­ble with some­thing in his arms. They were bare­ly feet from him when Har­ry re­al­ized who the man was.

“Mundun­gus!”

The squat, bandy­legged man with long, strag­gly, gin­ger hair jumped and dropped an an­cient suit­case, which burst open, re­leas­ing what looked like the en­tire con­tents of a junk shop win­dow.

“Oh, ‘el­lo, ‘Ar­ry,” said Mundun­gus Fletch­er, with a most un­con­vinc­ing stab at airi­ness. “Well, don’t let me keep ya.”

And he be­gan scrab­bling on the ground to re­trieve the con­tents of his suit­case with ev­ery ap­pear­an­ce of a man ea­ger to be gone.

“Are you sell­ing this stuff?” asked Har­ry, watch­ing Mundun­gus grab an as­sort­ment of grub­by­look­ing ob­jects from the ground.

“Oh, well, got­ta scrape a liv­ing,” said Mundun­gus. “Gimme that!”

Ron had stooped down and picked up some­thing sil­ver.

“Hang on,” Ron said slow­ly. “This looks fa­mil­iar —”

“Thank you!” said Mundun­gus, snatch­ing the gob­let out of Ron’s hand and stuff­ing it back in­to the case. “Well, I’ll see you all _ OUCH!”

Har­ry had pinned Mundun­gus against the wall of the pub by the throat. Hold­ing him fast with one hand, he pulled out his wand.

“Har­ry!” squealed Hermione.

“You took that from Si­nus’s house,” said Har­ry, who was al­most nose to nose with Mundun­gus and was breath­ing in an un­pleas­ant smell of old to­bac­co and spir­its. “That had the Black fam­ily crest on it.”

“I — no — what — ?” splut­tered Mundun­gus, who was slow­ly turn­ing pur­ple.

“What did you do, go back the night he died and strip the place?” snarled Har­ry.

“I — no — “

“Give it to me!”

“Har­ry, you mustn’t!” shrieked Hermione, as Mundun­gus start­ed to turn blue.

There was a bang, and Har­ry felt his hands fly off Mundun­gus’s throat. Gasp­ing and splut­ter­ing, Mundun­gus seized his fall­en case, then — CRACK— he Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

Har­ry swore at the top of his voice, spin­ning on the spot to see where Mundun­gus had gone.

“COME BACK, YOU THIEV­ING — !”

“There’s no point, Har­ry.” Tonks had ap­peared out of nowhere, her mousy hair wet with sleet.

“Mundun­gus will prob­ably be in Lon­don by now. There’s no point yelling.”

“He’s nicked Sir­ius’s stuff! Nicked it!”

“Yes, but still,” said Tonks, who seemed per­fect­ly un­trou­bled by this piece of in­for­ma­tion. “You should get out of the cold.”

She watched them go through the door of the Three Broom­sticks. The mo­ment he was in­side, Har­ry burst out, “He was nick­ing Sir­ius’s stuff!”

“I know, Har­ry, but please don’t shout, peo­ple are star­ing,” whis­pered Hermione. “Go and sit down, I’ll get you a drink.”

Har­ry was still fum­ing when Hermione re­turned to their ta­ble a few min­utes lat­er hold­ing three bot­tles of but­ter­beer.

“Can’t the Or­der con­trol Mundun­gus?” Har­ry de­mand­ed of the oth­er two in a fu­ri­ous whis­per. “Can’t they at least stop him steal­ing ev­ery­thing that’s not fixed down when he’s at head­quar­ters?”

“Shh!” said Hermione des­per­ate­ly, look­ing around to make sure no­body was lis­ten­ing; there were a cou­ple of war­locks sit­ting close by who were star­ing at Har­ry with great in­ter­est, and Zabi­ni was lolling against a pil­lar not far away. “Har­ry, I’d be an­noyed too, I know it’s your things he’s steal­ing—”

Har­ry gagged on his but­ter­beer; he had mo­men­tar­ily for­got­ten that he owned num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place.

“Yeah, it’s my stuff!” he said. “No won­der he wasn’t pleased to see me! Well, I’m go­ing to tell Dum­ble­dore what’s go­ing on, he’s the on­ly one who scares Mundun­gus.”

“Good idea,” whis­pered Hermione, clear­ly pleased that Har­ry was calm­ing down. “Ron, what are you star­ing at?”

“Noth­ing,” said Ron, hasti­ly look­ing away from the bar, but Har­ry knew he was try­ing to catch the eye of the curvy and at­trac­tive bar­maid, Madam Ros­mer­ta, for whom he had long nursed a soft spot.

“I ex­pect ‘noth­ing’s’ in the back get­ting more firewhisky,” said Hermione waspish­ly.

Ron ig­nored this jibe, sip­ping his drink in what he ev­ident­ly con­sid­ered to be a dig­ni­fied si­lence. Har­ry was think­ing about Sir­ius, and how he had hat­ed those sil­ver gob­lets any­way. Hermione drummed her fin­gers on the ta­ble, her eyes flick­er­ing be­tween Ron and the bar. The mo­ment Har­ry drained the last drops in his bot­tle she said, “Shall we call it a day and go back to school, then?”

The oth­er two nod­ded; it had not been a fun trip and the weath­er was get­ting worse the longer they stayed. Once again they drew their cloaks tight­ly around them, re­ar­ranged their scarves, pulled on their gloves, then fol­lowed Katie Bell and a friend out of the pub and back up the High Street. Har­ry’s thoughts strayed to Gin­ny as they trudged up the road to Hog­warts through the frozen slush. They had not met up with her, un­doubt­ed­ly, thought Har­ry, be­cause she and Dean were co­zi­ly clos­et­ed in Madam Pud­di­foot’s Tea Shop, that haunt of hap­py cou­ples. Scowl­ing, he bowed his head against the swirling sleet and trudged on.

It was a lit­tle while be­fore Har­ry be­came aware that the voic­es of Katie Bell and her friend, which were be­ing car­ried back to him on the wind, had be­come shriller and loud­er. Har­ry squint­ed at their in­dis­tinct fig­ures. The two girls were hav­ing an ar­gu­ment about some­thing Katie was hold­ing in her hand. “It’s noth­ing to do with you, Leanne!” Har­ry heard Katie say.

They round­ed a cor­ner in the lane, sleet com­ing thick and fast, blur­ring Har­ry’s glass­es. Just as he raised a gloved hand to wipe them, Leanne made to grab hold of the pack­age Katie was hold­ing; Katie tugged it back and the pack­age fell to the ground.

At once, Katie rose in­to the air, not as Ron had done, sus­pend­ed com­ical­ly by the an­kle, but grace­ful­ly, her arms out­stretched, as though she was about to fly. Yet there was some­thing wrong, some­thing eerie. . . . Her hair was whipped around her by the fierce wind, but her eyes were closed and her face was quite emp­ty of ex­pres­sion. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne had all halt­ed in their tracks, watch­ing.

Then, six feet above the ground, Katie let out a ter­ri­ble scream. Her eyes flew open but what­ev­er she could see, or what­ev­er she was feel­ing, was clear­ly caus­ing her ter­ri­ble an­guish. She screamed and screamed; Leanne start­ed to scream too and seized Katie’s an­kles, try­ing to tug her back to the ground. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione rushed for­ward to help, but even as they grabbed Katie’s legs, she fell on top of them; Har­ry and Ron man­aged to catch her but she was writhing so much they could hard­ly hold her. In­stead they low­ered her to the ground where she thrashed and screamed, ap­par­ent­ly un­able to rec­og­nize any of them.

Har­ry looked around; the land­scape seemed de­sert­ed.

“Stay there!” he shout­ed at the oth­ers over the howl­ing wind. “I’m go­ing for help!”

He be­gan to sprint to­ward the school; he had nev­er seen any­one be­have as Katie had just be­haved and could not think what had caused it; he hur­tled around a bend in the lane and col­lid­ed with what seemed to be an enor­mous bear on its hind legs.

“Ha­grid!” he pant­ed, dis­en­tan­gling him­self from the hedgerow in­to which he had fall­en.

“Har­ry!” said Ha­grid, who had sleet trapped in his eye­brows and beard, and was wear­ing his great, shag­gy beaver­skin coat. “Jus’ bin vis­itin’ Grawp, he’s comin’ on so well yeh wouldn’ —”

“Ha­grid, some­one’s hurt back there, or cursed, or some­thing —”

“Wha ?” said Ha­grid, bend­ing low­er to hear what Har­ry was say­ing over the rag­ing wind.

“Some­one’s been cursed!” bel­lowed Har­ry.

“Cursed? Who’s bin cursed — not Ron? Hermione?”

“No, it’s not them, it’s Katie Bell — this way . . .”

To­geth­er they ran back along the lane. It took them no time to find the lit­tle group of peo­ple around Katie, who was still writhing and scream­ing on the ground; Ron, Hermione, and Leanne were all try­ing to qui­et her.

“Get back!” shout­ed Ha­grid. “Lemme see her!”

“Some­thing’s hap­pened to her!” sobbed Leanne. “I don’t know what —”

Ha­grid stared at Katie for a sec­ond, then with­out a word, bent down, scooped her in­to his arms, and ran off to­ward the cas­tle with her. With­in sec­onds, Katie’s pierc­ing screams had died away and the on­ly sound was the roar of the wind.

Hermione hur­ried over to Katie’s wail­ing friend and put an arm around her.

“It’s Leanne, isn’t it?”

The girl nod­ded.

“Did it just hap­pen all of a sud­den, or — ?”

“It was when that pack­age tore,” sobbed Leanne, point­ing at the now sod­den brown­pa­per pack­age on the ground, which had split open to re­veal a green­ish glit­ter. Ron bent down, his hand out­stretched, but Har­ry seized his arm and pulled him back.

“Don’t touch it!”

He crouched down. An or­nate opal neck­lace was vis­ible, pok­ing out of the pa­per.

“I’ve seen that be­fore,” said Har­ry, star­ing at the thing. “It was on dis­play in Bor­gin and Burkes ages ago. The la­bel said it was cursed. Katie must have touched it.” He looked up at Leanne, who had start­ed to shake un­con­trol­lably. “How did Katie get hold of this?”

“Well, that’s why we were ar­gu­ing. She came back from the bath­room in the Three Broom­sticks hold­ing it, said it was a sur­prise for some­body at Hog­warts and she had to de­liv­er it. She looked all fun­ny when she said it. … Oh no, oh no, I bet she’d been Im­periused and I didn’t re­al­ize!”

Leanne shook with re­newed sobs. Hermione pat­ted her shoul­der gen­tly.

“She didn’t say who’d giv­en it to her, Leanne?”

“No . . . she wouldn’t tell me . . . and I said she was be­ing stupid and not to take it up to school, but she just wouldn’t lis­ten and . . . and then I tried to grab it from her . . . and — and —”

Leanne let out a wail of de­spair.

“We’d bet­ter get up to school,” said Hermione, her arm still around Leanne. “We’ll be able to find out how she is. Come on. . . .”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then pulled his scarf from around his face and, ig­nor­ing Ron’s gasp, care­ful­ly cov­ered the neck­lace in it and picked it up.

“We’ll need to show this to Madam Pom­frey,” he said.

As they fol­lowed Hermione and Leanne up the road, Har­ry was think­ing fu­ri­ous­ly. They had just en­tered the grounds when he spoke, un­able to keep his thoughts to him­self any longer.

“Mal­foy knows about this neck­lace. It was in a case at Bor­gin and Burkes four years ago, I saw him hav­ing a good look at it while I was hid­ing from him and his dad. This is what he was buy­ing that day when we fol­lowed him! He re­mem­bered it and he went back for it!” ,

“I — I dun­no, Har­ry,” said Ron hes­itant­ly. “Loads of peo­ple go to Bor­gin and Burkes . . . and didn’t that girl say Katie got it in the girls’ bath­room?”

“She said she came back from the bath­room with it, she didn’t nec­es­sar­ily get it in the bath­room it­self—”

“McG­ona­gall!” said Ron warn­ing­ly.

Har­ry looked up. Sure enough, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was hur­ry­ing down the stone steps through swirling sleet to meet them.

“Ha­grid says you four saw what hap­pened to Katie Bell — up­stairs to my of­fice at once, please! What’s that you’re hold­ing, Pot­ter?”

“It’s the thing she touched,” said Har­ry.

“Good lord,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing alarmed as she took the neck­lace from Har­ry. “No, no, Filch, they’re with me!” she added hasti­ly, as Filch came shuf­fling ea­ger­ly across the en­trance hall hold­ing his Se­cre­cy Sen­sor aloft. “Take this neck­lace to Pro­fes­sor Snape at once, but be sure not to touch it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!”

Har­ry and the oth­ers fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall up­stairs and in­to her of­fice. The sleetspat­tered win­dows were rat­tling in their frames, and the room was chilly de­spite the fire crack­ling in the grate. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall closed the door and swept around her desk to face Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and the still sob­bing Leanne.

“Well?” she said sharply. “What hap­pened?”

Halt­ing­ly, and with many paus­es while she at­tempt­ed to con­trol her cry­ing, Leanne told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall how Katie had gone to the bath­room in the Three Broom­sticks and re­turned hold­ing the un­marked pack­age, how Katie had seemed a lit­tle odd, and how they had ar­gued about the ad­vis­abil­ity of agree­ing to de­liv­er un­known ob­jects, the ar­gu­ment cul­mi­nat­ing in the tus­sle over the par­cel, which tore open. At this point, Leanne was so over­come, there was no get­ting an­oth­er word out of her.

“All right,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, not un­kind­ly, “go up to the hos­pi­tal wing, please, Leanne, and get Madam Pom­frey to give you some­thing for shock.”

When she had left the room, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned back to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione.

“What hap­pened when Katie touched the neck­lace?”

“She rose up in the air,” said Har­ry, be­fore ei­ther Ron or Hermione could speak, “and then be­gan to scream, and col­lapsed. Pro­fes­sor, can I see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, please?”

“The head­mas­ter is away un­til Mon­day, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing sur­prised.

“Away?” Har­ry re­peat­ed an­gri­ly.

“Yes, Pot­ter, away!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tart­ly. “But any­thing you have to say about this hor­ri­ble busi­ness can be said to me, I’m sure!”

For a split sec­ond, Har­ry hes­itat­ed. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall did not in­vite con­fi­dences; Dum­ble­dore, though in many ways more in­tim­idat­ing, still seemed less like­ly to scorn a the­ory, how­ev­er wild. This was a life­and­death mat­ter, though, and no mo­ment to wor­ry about be­ing laughed at.

“I think Dra­co Mal­foy gave Katie that neck­lace, Pro­fes­sor.”

On one side of him, Ron rubbed his nose in ap­par­ent em­bar­rass­ment; on the oth­er, Hermione shuf­fled her feet as though quite keen to put a bit of dis­tance be­tween her­self and Har­ry.

“That is a very se­ri­ous ac­cu­sa­tion, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, af­ter a shocked pause. “Do you have any proof?”

“No,” said Har­ry, “but…” and he told her about fol­low­ing Mal­foy to Bor­gin and Burkes and the con­ver­sa­tion they had over­heard be­tween him and Mr. Bor­gin.

When he had fin­ished speak­ing, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked slight­ly con­fused.

“Mal­foy took some­thing to Bor­gin and Burkes for re­pair?”

“No, Pro­fes­sor, he just want­ed Bor­gin to tell him how to mend some­thing, he didn’t have it with him. But that’s not the point, the thing is that he bought some­thing at the same time, and I think it was that neck­lace —”

“You saw Mal­foy leav­ing the shop with a sim­ilar pack­age?”

“No, Pro­fes­sor, he told Bor­gin to keep it in the shop for him —”

“But Har­ry,” Hermione in­ter­rupt­ed, “Bor­gin asked him if he want­ed to take it with him, and Mal­foy said no —”

“Be­cause he didn’t want to touch it, ob­vi­ous­ly!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

“What he ac­tu­al­ly said was, ‘How would I look car­ry­ing that down the street?’” said Hermione.

“Well, he would look a bit of a prat car­ry­ing a neck­lace,” in­ter­ject­ed Ron.

“Oh, Ron,” said Hermione de­spair­ing­ly, “it would be all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and quite easy to hide in­side a cloak, so no­body would see it! I think what­ev­er he re­served at Bor­gin and Burkes was noisy or bulky, some­thing he knew would draw at­ten­tion to him if he car­ried it down the street — and in any case,” she pressed on loud­ly, be­fore Har­ry could in­ter­rupt, “I asked Bor­gin about the neck­lace, don’t you re­mem­ber? When I went in to try and find out what Mal­foy had asked him to keep, I saw it there. And Bor­gin just told me the price, he didn’t say it was al­ready sold or any­thing —”

“Well, you were be­ing re­al­ly ob­vi­ous, he re­al­ized what you were up to with­in about five sec­onds, of course he wasn’t go­ing to tell you — any­way, Mal­foy could’ve sent off for it since —”

“That’s enough!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, as Hermione opened her mouth to re­tort, look­ing fu­ri­ous. “Pot­ter, I ap­pre­ci­ate you telling me this, but we can­not point the fin­ger of blame at Mr. Mal­foy pure­ly be­cause he vis­it­ed the shop where this neck­lace might have been pur­chased. The same is prob­ably true of hun­dreds of peo­ple —”

“— that’s what I said —” mut­tered Ron.

“— and in any case, we have put strin­gent se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures in place this year. I do not be­lieve that neck­lace can pos­si­bly have en­tered this school with­out our knowl­edge —”

“But —”

“— and what is more,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with an air of aw­ful fi­nal­ity, “Mr. Mal­foy was not in Hogsmeade to­day.”

Har­ry gaped at her, de­flat­ing.

“How do you know, Pro­fes­sor?”

“Be­cause he was do­ing de­ten­tion with me. He has now failed to com­plete his Trans­fig­ura­tion home­work twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your sus­pi­cions, Pot­ter,” she said as she marched past them, “but I need to go up to the hos­pi­tal wing now to check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all.”

She held open her of­fice door. They had no choice but to file past her with­out an­oth­er word.

Har­ry was an­gry with the oth­er two for sid­ing with McG­ona­gall; nev­er­the­less, he felt com­pelled to join in once they start­ed dis­cussing what had hap­pened.

“So who do you reck­on Katie was sup­posed to give the neck­lace to?” asked Ron, as they climbed the stairs to the com­mon room.

“Good­ness on­ly knows,” said Hermione. “But who­ev­er it was has had a nar­row es­cape. No one could have opened that pack­age with­out touch­ing the neck­lace.”

“It could’ve been meant for loads of peo­ple,” said Har­ry. “Dum­ble­dore — the Death Eaters would love to get rid of him, he must be one of their top tar­gets. Or Slughorn — Dum­ble­dore reck­ons Volde­mort re­al­ly want­ed him and they can’t be pleased that he’s sid­ed with Dum­ble­dore. Or —”

“Or you,” said Hermione, look­ing trou­bled.

“Couldn’t have been,” said Har­ry, “or Katie would’ve just turned around in the lane and giv­en it to me, wouldn’t she? I was be­hind her all the way out of the Three Broom­sticks. It would have made much more sense to de­liv­er the par­cel out­side Hog­warts, what with Filch search­ing ev­ery­one who goes in and out. I won­der why Mal­foy told her to take it in­to the cas­tle?”

“Har­ry, Mal­foy wasn’t in Hogsmeade!” said Hermione, ac­tu­al­ly stamp­ing her foot in frus­tra­tion.

“He must have used an ac­com­plice, then,” said Har­ry. “Crabbe or Goyle — or, come to think of it, an­oth­er Death Eater, he’ll have loads bet­ter cronies than Crabbe and Goyle now he’s joined up —”

Ron and Hermione ex­changed looks that plain­ly said There’s no point ar­gu­ing with him.

“Dil­li­grout,” said Hermione firm­ly as they reached the Fat La­dy.

The por­trait swung open to ad­mit them to the com­mon room. It was quite full and smelled of damp cloth­ing; many peo­ple seemed to have re­turned from Hogsmeade ear­ly be­cause of the bad weath­er. There was no buzz of fear or spec­ula­tion, how­ev­er: Clear­ly, the news of Katie’s fate had not yet spread.

“It wasn’t a very slick at­tack, re­al­ly, when you stop and think about it,” said Ron, ca­su­al­ly turf­ing a first year out of one of the good arm­chairs by the fire so that he could sit down. “The curse didn’t even make it in­to the cas­tle. Not what you’d call fool­proof.”

“You’re right,” said Hermione, prod­ding Ron out of the chair with her foot and of­fer­ing it to the first year again. “It wasn’t very well thoughtout at all.”

“But since when has Mal­foy been one of the world’s great thinkers?” asked Har­ry.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione an­swered him.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 13: The Secret Riddle


Katie was re­moved to St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­ju­ries the fol­low­ing day, by which time the news that she had been cursed had spread all over the school, though the de­tails were con­fused and no­body oth­er than Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne seemed to know that Katie her­self had not been the in­tend­ed tar­get.

“Oh, and Mal­foy knows, of course,” said Har­ry to Ron and Hermione, who con­tin­ued their new pol­icy of feign­ing deaf­ness when­ev­er Har­ry men­tioned his Mal­foy­IsaDeathE­ater the­ory.

Har­ry had won­dered whether Dum­ble­dore would re­turn from wher­ev­er he had been in time for Mon­day night’s les­son, but hav­ing had no word to the con­trary, he pre­sent­ed him­self out­side Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice at eight o’clock, knocked, and was told to en­ter. There sat Dum­ble­dore look­ing un­usu­al­ly tired; his hand was as black and burned as ev­er, but he smiled when he ges­tured to Har­ry to sit down. The Pen­sieve was sit­ting on the desk again, cast­ing sil­very specks of light over the ceil­ing.

“You have had a busy time while I have been away,” Dum­ble­dore said. “I be­lieve you wit­nessed Katie’s ac­ci­dent.”

“Yes, sir. How is she?”

“Still very un­well, al­though she was rel­ative­ly lucky. She ap­pears to have brushed the neck­lace with the small­est pos­si­ble amount of skin; there was a tiny hole in her glove. Had she put it on, had she even held it in her un­gloved hand, she would have died, per­haps in­stant­ly. Luck­ily Pro­fes­sor Snape was able to do enough to pre­vent a rapid spread of the curse —”

“Why him?” asked Har­ry quick­ly. “Why not Madam Pom­frey?”

“Im­per­ti­nent,” said a soft voice from one of the por­traits on the wall, and Phineas Nigel­lus Black, Sir­ius’s great­great­grand­fa­ther, raised his head from his arms where he had ap­peared to be sleep­ing. “I would not have per­mit­ted a stu­dent to ques­tion the way Hog­warts op­er­at­ed in my day.”

“Yes, thank you, Phineas,” said Dum­ble­dore quelling­ly. “Pro­fes­sor Snape knows much more about the Dark Arts than Madam Pom­frey, Har­ry. Any­way, the St. Mun­go’s staff are send­ing me hourly re­ports, and I am hope­ful that Katie will make a full re­cov­ery in time.”

“Where were you this week­end, sir?” Har­ry asked, dis­re­gard­ing a strong feel­ing that he might be push­ing his luck, a feel­ing ap­par­ent­ly shared by Phineas Nigel­lus, who hissed soft­ly.

“I would rather not say just now,” said Dum­ble­dore. “How­ev­er, I shall tell you in due course.”

“You will?” said Har­ry, star­tled.

“Yes, I ex­pect so,” said Dum­ble­dore, with­draw­ing a fresh bot­tle of sil­ver mem­ories from in­side his robes and un­cork­ing it with a prod of his wand.

“Sir,” said Har­ry ten­ta­tive­ly, “I met Mundun­gus in Hogsmeade.”

“Ah yes, I am al­ready aware that Mundun­gus has been treat­ing your in­her­itance with lightfin­gered con­tempt,” said Dum­ble­dore, frown­ing a lit­tle. “He has gone to ground since you ac­cost­ed him out­side the Three Broom­sticks; I rather think he dreads fac­ing me. How­ev­er, rest as­sured that he will not be mak­ing away with any more of Sir­ius’s old pos­ses­sions.”

“That mangy old half­blood has been steal­ing Black heir­looms?” said Phineas Nigel­lus, in­censed; and he stalked out of his frame, un­doubt­ed­ly to vis­it his por­trait in num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place.

“Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, af­ter a short pause, “did Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tell you what I told her af­ter Katie got hurt? About Dra­co Mal­foy?”

“She told me of your sus­pi­cions, yes,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“And do you — ?”

“I shall take all ap­pro­pri­ate mea­sures to in­ves­ti­gate any­one who might have had a hand in Katie’s ac­ci­dent,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But what con­cerns me now, Har­ry, is our les­son.”

Har­ry felt slight­ly re­sent­ful at this: If their lessons were so very im­por­tant, why had there been such a long gap be­tween the first and sec­ond? How­ev­er, he said no more about Dra­co Mal­foy, but watched as Dum­ble­dore poured the fresh mem­ories in­to the Pen­sieve and be­gan swirling the stone basin once more be­tween his longfin­gered hands.

“You will re­mem­ber, I am sure, that we left the tale of Lord Volde­mort’s be­gin­nings at the point where the hand­some Mug­gle, Tom Rid­dle, had aban­doned his witch wife, Merope, and re­turned to his fam­ily home in Lit­tle Hangle­ton. Merope was left alone in Lon­don, ex­pect­ing the ba­by who would one day be­come Lord Volde­mort.”

“How do you know she was in Lon­don, sir?”

“Be­cause of the ev­idence of one Car­ac­ta­cus Burke,” said Dum­ble­dore, “who, by an odd co­in­ci­dence, helped found the very shop whence came the neck­lace we have just been dis­cussing.”

He swilled the con­tents of the Pen­sieve as Har­ry had seen him swill them be­fore, much as a gold prospec­tor sifts for gold. Up out of the swirling, sil­very mass rose a lit­tle old man re­volv­ing slow­ly in the Pen­sieve, sil­ver as a ghost but much more sol­id, with a thatch of hair that com­plete­ly cov­ered his eyes.

“Yes, we ac­quired it in cu­ri­ous cir­cum­stances. It was brought in by a young witch just be­fore Christ­mas, oh, many years ago now. She said she need­ed the gold bad­ly, well, that much was ob­vi­ous. Cov­ered in rags and pret­ty far along . . . Go­ing to have a ba­by, see. She said the lock­et had been Slytherin’s. Well, we hear that sort of sto­ry all the time, ‘Oh, this was Mer­lin’s, this was, his fa­vorite teapot,’ but when I looked at it, it had his mark all right, and a few sim­ple spells were enough to tell me the truth. Of course, that made it near enough price­less. She didn’t seem to have any idea how much it was worth. Hap­py to get ten Galleons for it. Best bar­gain we ev­er made!”

Dum­ble­dore gave the Pen­sieve an ex­trav­ig­or­ous shake and Car­ac­ta­cus Burke de­scend­ed back in­to the swirling mass of mem­ory from whence he had come.

“He on­ly gave her ten Galleons?” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly.

“Car­ac­ta­cus Burke was not famed for his gen­eros­ity,” said Dum­ble­dore. “So we know that, near the end of her preg­nan­cy, Merope was alone in Lon­don and in des­per­ate need of gold, des­per­ate enough to sell her one and on­ly valu­able pos­ses­sion, the lock­et that was one of Mar­vo­lo’s trea­sured fam­ily heir­looms.”

“But she could do mag­ic!” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly. “She could have got food and ev­ery­thing for her­self by mag­ic, couldn’t she?”

“Ah,” said Dum­ble­dore, “per­haps she could. But it is my be­lief—I am guess­ing again, but I am sure I am right — that when her hus­band aban­doned her, Merope stopped us­ing mag­ic. I do not think that she want­ed to be a witch any longer. Of course, it is al­so pos­si­ble that her un­re­quit­ed love and the at­ten­dant de­spair sapped her of her pow­ers; that can hap­pen. In any case, as you are about to see, Merope re­fused to raise her wand even to save her own life.”

“She wouldn’t even stay alive for her son?”

Dum­ble­dore raised his eye­brows. “Could you pos­si­bly be feel­ing sor­ry for Lord Volde­mort?”

“No,” said Har­ry quick­ly, “but she had a choice, didn’t she, not like my moth­er —”

“Your moth­er had a choice too,” said Dum­ble­dore gen­tly. “Yes, Merope Rid­dle chose death in spite of a son who need­ed her, but do not judge her too harsh­ly, Har­ry. She was great­ly weak­ened by long suf­fer­ing and she nev­er had your moth­er’s courage. And now, if you will stand …”

“Where are we go­ing?” Har­ry asked, as Dum­ble­dore joined him at the front of the desk.

“This time,” said Dum­ble­dore, “we are go­ing to en­ter my mem­ory. I think you will find it both rich in de­tail and sat­is­fy­ing­ly ac­cu­rate. Af­ter you, Har­ry …”

Har­ry bent over the Pen­sieve; his face broke the cool sur­face of the mem­ory and then he was falling through dark­ness again. . . . Sec­onds lat­er, his feet hit firm ground; he opened his eyes and found that he and Dum­ble­dore were stand­ing in a bustling, old­fash­ioned Lon­don street.

“There I am,” said Dum­ble­dore bright­ly, point­ing ahead of them to a tall fig­ure cross­ing the road in front of a horse­drawn milk cart.

This younger Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s long hair and beard were auburn. Hav­ing reached their side of the street, he strode off along the pave­ment, draw­ing many cu­ri­ous glances due to the flam­boy­ant­ly cut suit of plum vel­vet that he was wear­ing.

“Nice suit, sir,” said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self, but Dum­ble­dore mere­ly chuck­led as they fol­lowed his younger self a short dis­tance, fi­nal­ly pass­ing through a set of iron gates in­to a bare court­yard that front­ed a rather grim, square build­ing sur­round­ed by high rail­in­gs. He mount­ed the few steps lead­ing to the front door and knocked once. Af­ter a mo­ment or two, the door was opened by a scruffy girl wear­ing an apron.

“Good af­ter­noon. I have an ap­point­ment with a Mrs. Cole, who, I be­lieve, is the ma­tron here?”

“Oh,” said the be­wil­dered­look­ing girl, tak­ing in Dum­ble­dore’s ec­cen­tric ap­pear­an­ce. “Um. . . just a mo’ . . . MRS. COLE!” she bel­lowed over her shoul­der.

Har­ry heard a dis­tant voice shout­ing some­thing in re­sponse. The girl turned back to Dum­ble­dore. “Come in, she’s on ‘er way.”

Dum­ble­dore stepped in­to a hall­way tiled in black and white; the whole place was shab­by but spot­less­ly clean. Har­ry and the old­er Dum­ble­dore fol­lowed. Be­fore the front door had closed be­hind them, a skin­ny, ha­rass­ed­look­ing wom­an came scur­ry­ing to­ward them. She had a sharpfea­tured face that ap­peared more anx­ious than un­kind, and she was talk­ing over her shoul­der to an­oth­er aproned helper as she walked to­ward Dum­ble­dore.

“. . . and take the io­dine up­stairs to Martha, Bil­ly Stubbs has been pick­ing his scabs and Er­ic Whal­ley’s ooz­ing all over his sheets — chick­en pox on top of ev­ery­thing else,” she said to no­body in par­tic­ular, and then her eyes fell up­on Dum­ble­dore and she stopped dead in her tracks, look­ing as as­ton­ished as if a gi­raffe had just crossed her thresh­old.

“Good af­ter­noon,” said Dum­ble­dore, hold­ing out his hand. Mrs. Cole sim­ply gaped.

“My name is Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. I sent you a let­ter re­quest­ing an ap­point­ment and you very kind­ly in­vit­ed me here to­day.”

Mrs. Cole blinked. Ap­par­ent­ly de­cid­ing that Dum­ble­dore was not a hal­lu­ci­na­tion, she said fee­bly, “Oh yes. Well — well then — you’d bet­ter come in­to my room. Yes.”

She led Dum­ble­dore in­to a small room that seemed part sit­ting room, part of­fice. It was as shab­by as the hall­way and the fur­ni­ture was old and mis­matched. She in­vit­ed Dum­ble­dore to sit on a rick­ety chair and seat­ed her­self be­hind a clut­tered desk, eye­ing him ner­vous­ly.

“I am here, as I told you in my let­ter, to dis­cuss Tom Rid­dle and ar­range­ments for his fu­ture,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Are you fam­ily?” asked Mrs. Cole.

“No, I am a teach­er,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I have come to of­fer Tom a place at my school.”

“What school’s this, then?”

“It is called Hog­warts,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“And how come you’re in­ter­est­ed in Tom?”

“We be­lieve he has qual­ities we are look­ing for.”

“You mean he’s won a schol­ar­ship? How can he have done? He’s nev­er been en­tered for one.”

“Well, his name has been down for our school since birth —”

“Who reg­is­tered him? His par­ents?”

There was no doubt that Mrs. Cole was an in­con­ve­nient­ly sharp wom­an. Ap­par­ent­ly Dum­ble­dore thought so too, for Har­ry now saw him slip his wand out of the pock­et of his vel­vet suit, at the same time pick­ing up a piece of per­fect­ly blank pa­per from Mrs. Cole’s desk­top.

“Here,” said Dum­ble­dore, wav­ing his wand once as he passed her the piece of pa­per, “I think this will make ev­ery­thing clear.”

Mrs. Cole’s eyes slid out of fo­cus and back again as she gazed in­tent­ly at the blank pa­per for a mo­ment.

“That seems per­fect­ly in or­der,” she said placid­ly, hand­ing it back. Then her eyes fell up­on a bot­tle of gin and two glass­es that had cer­tain­ly not been present a few sec­onds be­fore.

“Er — may I of­fer you a glass of gin?” she said in an ex­trare­fined voice.

“Thank you very much,” said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing.

It soon be­came clear that Mrs. Cole was no novice when it came to gin drink­ing. Pour­ing both of them a gen­er­ous mea­sure, she drained her own glass in one gulp. Smack­ing her lips frankly, she smiled at Dum­ble­dore for the first time, and he didn’t hes­itate to press his ad­van­tage.

“I was won­der­ing whether you could tell me any­thing of Tom Rid­dle’s his­to­ry? I think he was born here in the or­phan­age?”

“That’s right,” said Mrs. Cole, help­ing her­self to more gin. “I re­mem­ber it clear as any­thing, be­cause I’d just start­ed here my­self. New Year’s Eve and bit­ter cold, snow­ing, you know. Nasty night. And this girl, not much old­er than I was my­self at the time, came stag­ger­ing up the front steps. Well, she wasn’t the first. We took her in, and she had the ba­by with­in the hour. And she was dead in an­oth­er hour.”

Mrs. Cole nod­ded im­pres­sive­ly and took an­oth­er gen­er­ous gulp of gin.

“Did she say any­thing be­fore she died?” asked Dum­ble­dore. “Any­thing about the boy’s fa­ther, for in­stance?”

“Now, as it hap­pens, she did,” said Mrs. Cole, who seemed to be rather en­joy­ing her­self now, with the gin in her hand and an ea­ger au­di­ence for her sto­ry. “I re­mem­ber she said to me, ‘I hope he looks like his pa­pa,’ and I won’t lie, she was right to hope it, be­cause she was no beau­ty — and then she told me he was to be named Tom, for his fa­ther, and Mar­vo­lo, for her fa­ther — yes, I know, fun­ny name, isn’t it? We won­dered whether she came from a cir­cus — and she said the boy’s sur­name was to be Rid­dle. And she died soon af­ter that with­out an­oth­er word.

“Well, we named him just as she’d said, it seemed so im­por­tant to the poor girl, but no Tom nor Mar­vo­lo nor any kind of Rid­dle ev­er came look­ing for him, nor any fam­ily at all, so he stayed in the or­phan­age and he’s been here ev­er since.”

Mrs. Cole helped her­self, al­most ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, to an­oth­er healthy mea­sure of gin. Two pink spots had ap­peared high on her cheek­bones. Then she said, “He’s a fun­ny boy.”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I thought he might be.”

“He was a fun­ny ba­by too. He hard­ly ev­er cried, you know. And then, when he got a lit­tle old­er, he was. . . odd.”

“Odd in what way?” asked Dum­ble­dore gen­tly.

“Well, he —”

But Mrs. Cole pulled up short, and there was noth­ing blur­ry or vague about the in­quisi­to­ri­al glance she shot Dum­ble­dore over her gin glass.

“He’s def­inite­ly got a place at your school, you say?”

“Def­inite­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“And noth­ing I say can change that?”

“Noth­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“You’ll be tak­ing him away, what­ev­er?”

“What­ev­er,” re­peat­ed Dum­ble­dore grave­ly.

She squint­ed at him as though de­cid­ing whether or not to trust him. Ap­par­ent­ly she de­cid­ed she could, be­cause she said in a sud­den rush, “He scares the oth­er chil­dren.”

“You mean he is a bul­ly?” asked Dum­ble­dore.

“I think he must be,” said Mrs. Cole, frown­ing slight­ly, “but it’s very hard to catch him at it. There have been in­ci­dents. . . . Nasty things …”

Dum­ble­dore did not press her, though Har­ry could tell that he was in­ter­est­ed. She took yet an­oth­er gulp of gin and her rosy cheeks grew rosier still.

“Bil­ly Stubbs’s rab­bit. . . well, Tom said he didn’t do it and I don’t see how he could have done, but even so, it didn’t hang it­self from the rafters, did it?”

“I shouldn’t think so, no,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

“But I’m jig­gered if I know how he got up there to do it. All I know is he and Bil­ly had ar­gued the day be­fore. And then” — Mrs. Cole took an­oth­er swig of gin, slop­ping a lit­tle over her chin this time — “on the sum­mer out­ing — we take them out, you know, once a year, to the coun­try­side or to the sea­side — well, Amy Ben­son and Den­nis Bish­op were nev­er quite right af­ter­wards, and all we ev­er got out of them was that they’d gone in­to a cave with Tom Rid­dle. He swore they’d just gone ex­plor­ing, but some­thing hap­pened in there, I’m sure of it. And, well, there have been a lot of things, fun­ny things. . . .”

She looked around at Dum­ble­dore again, and though her cheeks were flushed, her gaze was steady. “I don’t think many peo­ple will be sor­ry to see the back of him.”

“You un­der­stand, I’m sure, that we will not be keep­ing him per­ma­nent­ly?” said Dum­ble­dore. “He will have to re­turn here, at the very least, ev­ery sum­mer.”

“Oh, well, that’s bet­ter than a whack on the nose with a rusty pok­er,” said Mrs. Cole with a slight hic­cup. She got to her feet, and Har­ry was im­pressed to see that she was quite steady, even though twothirds of the gin was now gone. “I sup­pose you’d like to see him?”

“Very much,” said Dum­ble­dore, ris­ing too.

She led him out of her of­fice and up the stone stairs, call­ing out in­struc­tions and ad­mo­ni­tions to helpers and chil­dren as she passed. The or­phans, Har­ry saw, were all wear­ing the same kind of gray­ish tu­nic. They looked rea­son­ably well­cared for, but there was no de­ny­ing that this was a grim place in which to grow up.

“Here we are,” said Mrs. Cole, as they turned off the sec­ond land­ing and stopped out­side the first door in a long cor­ri­dor. She knocked twice and en­tered.

“Tom? You’ve got a vis­itor. This is Mr. Dumb­er­ton — sor­ry, Dun­der­bore. He’s come to tell you — well, I’ll let him do it.”

Har­ry and the two Dum­ble­dores en­tered the room, and Mrs. Cole closed the door on them. It was a small bare room with noth­ing in it ex­cept an old wardrobe and an iron bed­stead. A boy was sit­ting on top of the gray blan­kets, his legs stretched out in front of him, hold­ing a book.

There was no trace of the Gaunts in Tom Rid­dle’s face. Merope had got her dy­ing wish: He was his hand­some fa­ther in minia­ture, tall for eleven years old, dark­haired, and pale. His eyes nar­rowed slight­ly as he took in Dum­ble­dore’s ec­cen­tric ap­pear­an­ce. There was a mo­ment’s si­lence.

“How do you do, Tom?” said Dum­ble­dore, walk­ing for­ward and hold­ing out his hand.

The boy hes­itat­ed, then took it, and they shook hands. Dum­ble­dore drew up the hard wood­en chair be­side Rid­dle, so that the pair of them looked rather like a hos­pi­tal pa­tient and vis­itor.

“I am Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore.”

“‘Pro­fes­sor’?” re­peat­ed Rid­dle. He looked wary. “Is that like ‘doc­tor’? What are you here for? Did she get you in to have a look at me?”

He was point­ing at the door through which Mrs. Cole had just left.

“No, no,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing.

“I don’t be­lieve you,” said Rid­dle. “She wants me looked at, doesn’t she? Tell the truth!”

He spoke the last three words with a ring­ing force that was al­most shock­ing. It was a com­mand, and it sound­ed as though he had giv­en it many times be­fore. His eyes had widened and he was glar­ing at Dum­ble­dore, who made no re­sponse ex­cept to con­tin­ue smil­ing pleas­ant­ly. Af­ter a few sec­onds Rid­dle stopped glar­ing, though he looked, if any­thing, wari­er still.

“Who are you?”

“I have told you. My name is Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore and I work at a school called Hog­warts. I have come to of­fer you a place at my school — your new school, if you would like to come.”

Rid­dle’s re­ac­tion to this was most sur­pris­ing. He leapt from the bed and backed away from Dum­ble­dore, look­ing fu­ri­ous.

“You can’t kid me! The asy­lum, that’s where you’re from, isn’t it? ‘Pro­fes­sor,’ yes, of course — well, I’m not go­ing, see? That old cat’s the one who should be in the asy­lum. I nev­er did any­thing to lit­tle Amy Ben­son or Den­nis Bish­op, and you can ask them, they’ll tell you!

“I am not from the asy­lum,” said Dum­ble­dore pa­tient­ly. “I am a teach­er and, if you will sit down calm­ly, I shall tell you about Hog­warts. Of course, if you would rather not come to the school, no­body will force you —”

“I’d like to see them try,” sneered Rid­dle.

“Hog­warts,” Dum­ble­dore went on, as though he had not heard Rid­dle’s last words, “is a school for peo­ple with spe­cial abil­ities —”

“I’m not mad!”

“I know that you are not mad. Hog­warts is not a school for mad peo­ple. It is a school of mag­ic.”

There was si­lence. Rid­dle had frozen, his face ex­pres­sion­less, but his eyes were flick­er­ing back and forth be­tween each of Dum­ble­dore’s, as though try­ing to catch one of them ly­ing.

“Mag­ic?” he re­peat­ed in a whis­per.

“That’s right,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“It’s. . . it’s mag­ic, what I can do?”

“What is it that you can do?”

“All sorts,” breathed Rid­dle. A flush of ex­cite­ment was ris­ing up his neck in­to his hol­low cheeks; he looked fevered. “I can make fil­in­gs move with­out touch­ing them. I can make an­imals do what I want them to do, with­out train­ing them. I can make bad things hap­pen to peo­ple who an­noy me. I can make them hurt if I want to.”

His legs were trem­bling. He stum­bled for­ward and sat down on the bed again, star­ing at his hands, his head bowed as though in prayer.

“I knew I was dif­fer­ent,” he whis­pered to his own quiv­er­ing fin­gers. “I knew I was spe­cial. Al­ways, I knew there was some­thing.”

“Well, you were quite right,” said Dum­ble­dore, who was no longer smil­ing, but watch­ing Rid­dle in­tent­ly. “You are a wiz­ard.”

Rid­dle lift­ed his head. His face was trans­fig­ured: There was a wild hap­pi­ness up­on it, yet for some rea­son it did not make him bet­ter look­ing; on the con­trary, his fine­ly carved fea­tures seemed some­how rougher, his ex­pres­sion al­most bes­tial.

“Are you a wiz­ard too?”

“Yes, I am.”

“Prove it,” said Rid­dle at once, in the same com­mand­ing tone he had used when he had said, “Tell the truth.”

Dum­ble­dore raised his eye­brows. “If, as I take it, you are ac­cept­ing your place at Hog­warts—”

“Of course I am!”

“Then you will ad­dress me as ‘Pro­fes­sor’ or ’sir.’”

Rid­dle’s ex­pres­sion hard­ened for the most fleet­ing mo­ment be­fore he said, in an un­rec­og­niz­ably po­lite voice, “I’m sor­ry, sir. I meant — please, Pro­fes­sor, could you show me — ?”

Har­ry was sure that Dum­ble­dore was go­ing to refuse, that he would tell Rid­dle there would be plen­ty of time for prac­ti­cal de­mon­stra­tions at Hog­warts, that they were cur­rent­ly in a build­ing full of Mug­gles and must there­fore be cau­tious. To his great sur­prise, how­ev­er, Dum­ble­dore drew his wand from an in­side pock­et of his suit jack­et, point­ed it at the shab­by wardrobe in the cor­ner, and gave the wand a ca­su­al flick.

The wardrobe burst in­to flames.

Rid­dle jumped to his feet; Har­ry could hard­ly blame him for howl­ing in shock and rage; all his world­ly pos­ses­sions must be in there. But even as Rid­dle round­ed on Dum­ble­dore, the flames van­ished, leav­ing the wardrobe com­plete­ly un­dam­aged.

Rid­dle stared from the wardrobe to Dum­ble­dore; then, his ex­pres­sion greedy, he point­ed at the wand. “Where can I get one of them?”

“All in good time,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think there is some­thing try­ing to get out of your wardrobe.”

And sure enough, a faint rat­tling could be heard from in­side it. For the first time, Rid­dle looked fright­ened.

“Open the door,” said Dum­ble­dore.

Rid­dle hes­itat­ed, then crossed the room and threw open the wardrobe door. On the top­most shelf, above a rail of thread­bare clothes, a small card­board box was shak­ing and rat­tling as though there were sev­er­al fran­tic mice trapped in­side it.

“Take it out,” said Dum­ble­dore.

Rid­dle took down the quak­ing box. He looked un­nerved.

“Is there any­thing in that box that you ought not to have?” asked Dum­ble­dore.

Rid­dle threw Dum­ble­dore a long, clear, cal­cu­lat­ing look. “Yes, I sup­pose so, sir,” he said fi­nal­ly, in an ex­pres­sion­less voice.

“Open it,” said Dum­ble­dore.

Rid­dle took off the lid and tipped the con­tents on­to his bed with­out look­ing at them. Har­ry, who had ex­pect­ed some­thing much more ex­cit­ing, saw a mess of small, ev­ery­day ob­jects: a yoyo, a sil­ver thim­ble, and a tar­nished mouth or­gan among them. Once free of the box, they stopped quiv­er­ing and lay quite still up­on the thin blan­kets.

“You will re­turn them to their own­ers with your apo­lo­gies,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, putting his wand back in­to his jack­et. “I shall know whether it has been done. And be warned: Thiev­ing is not tol­er­at­ed at Hog­warts.”

Rid­dle did not look re­mote­ly abashed; he was still star­ing cold­ly and ap­prais­ing­ly at Dum­ble­dore. At last he said in a col­or­less voice, “Yes, sir.”

“At Hog­warts,” Dum­ble­dore went on, “we teach you not on­ly to use mag­ic, but to con­trol it. You have — in­ad­ver­tent­ly, I am sure — been us­ing your pow­ers in a way that is nei­ther taught nor tol­er­at­ed at our school. You are not the first, nor will you be the last, to al­low your mag­ic to run away with you. But you should know that Hog­warts can ex­pel stu­dents, and the Min­istry of Mag­ic — yes, there is a Min­istry — will pun­ish law­break­ers still more se­vere­ly. All new wiz­ards must ac­cept that, in en­ter­ing our world, they abide by our laws.”

“Yes, sir,” said Rid­dle again.

It was im­pos­si­ble to tell what he was think­ing; his face re­mained quite blank as he put the lit­tle cache of stolen ob­jects back in­to the card­board box. When he had fin­ished, he turned to Dum­ble­dore and said bald­ly, “I haven’t got any mon­ey.”

“That is eas­ily reme­died,” said Dum­ble­dore, draw­ing a leather mon­ey­pouch from his pock­et. “There is a fund at Hog­warts for those who re­quire as­sis­tance to buy books and robes. You might have to buy some of your spell­books and so on sec­ond­hand, but —”

“Where do you buy spell­books?” in­ter­rupt­ed Rid­dle, who had tak­en the heavy mon­ey bag with­out thank­ing Dum­ble­dore, and was now ex­am­in­ing a fat gold Galleon,

“In Di­agon Al­ley,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I have your list of books and school equip­ment with me. I can help you find ev­ery­thing —”

“You’re com­ing with me?” asked Rid­dle, look­ing up.

“Cer­tain­ly, if you —”

“I don’t need you,” said Rid­dle. “I’m used to do­ing things for my­self, I go round Lon­don on my own all the time. How do you get to this Di­agon Al­ley — sir?” he added, catch­ing Dum­ble­dore’s eye.

Har­ry thought that Dum­ble­dore would in­sist up­on ac­com­pa­ny­ing Rid­dle, but once again he was sur­prised. Dum­ble­dore hand­ed Rid­dle the en­ve­lope con­tain­ing his list of equip­ment, and af­ter telling Rid­dle ex­act­ly how to get to the Leaky Caul­dron from the or­phan­age, he said, “You will be able to see it, al­though Mug­gles around you — non­mag­ical peo­ple, that is — will not. Ask for Tom the bar­man — easy enough to re­mem­ber, as he shares your name —”

Rid­dle gave an ir­ri­ta­ble twitch, as though try­ing to dis­place an irk­some fly.

“You dis­like the name ‘Tom’?”

“There are a lot of Toms,” mut­tered Rid­dle. Then, as though he could not sup­press the ques­tion, as though it burst from him in spite of him­self, he asked, “Was my fa­ther a wiz­ard? He was called Tom Rid­dle too, they’ve told me.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice gen­tle.

“My moth­er can’t have been mag­ic, or she wouldn’t have died,” said Rid­dle, more to him­self than Dum­ble­dore. “It must’ve been him. So — when I’ve got all my stuff— when do I come to this Hog­warts?”

“All the de­tails are on the sec­ond piece of parch­ment in your en­ve­lope,” said Dum­ble­dore. “You will leave from King’s Cross Sta­tion on the first of Septem­ber. There is a train tick­et in there too.”

Rid­dle nod­ded. Dum­ble­dore got to his feet and held out his hand again. Tak­ing it, Rid­dle said, “I can speak to snakes. I found out when we’ve been to the coun­try on trips — they find me, they whis­per to me. Is that nor­mal for a wiz­ard?”

Har­ry could tell that he had with­held men­tion of this strangest pow­er un­til that mo­ment, de­ter­mined to im­press.

“It is un­usu­al,” said Dum­ble­dore, af­ter a mo­ment’s hes­ita­tion, “but not un­heard of.”

His tone was ca­su­al but his eyes moved cu­ri­ous­ly over Rid­dle’s face. They stood for a mo­ment, man and boy, star­ing at each oth­er. Then the hand­shake was bro­ken; Dum­ble­dore was at the door.

“Good­bye, Tom. I shall see you at Hog­warts.”

“I think that will do,” said the white­haired Dum­ble­dore at Har­ry’s side, and sec­onds lat­er, they were soar­ing weight­less­ly through dark­ness once more, be­fore land­ing square­ly in the present­day of­fice.

“Sit down,” said Dum­ble­dore, land­ing be­side Har­ry.

Har­ry obeyed, his mind still full of what he had just seen.

“He be­lieved it much quick­er than I did — I mean, when you told him he was a wiz­ard,” said Har­ry. “I didn’t be­lieve Ha­grid at first, when he told me.”

“Yes, Rid­dle was per­fect­ly ready to be­lieve that he was — to use his word — ’spe­cial,’” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Did you know — then?” asked Har­ry.

“Did I know that I had just met the most dan­ger­ous Dark wiz­ard of all time?” said Dum­ble­dore. “No, I had no idea that he was to grow up to be what he is. How­ev­er, I was cer­tain­ly in­trigued by him. I re­turned to Hog­warts in­tend­ing to keep an eye up­on him, some­thing I should have done in any case, giv­en that he was alone and friend­less, but which, al­ready, I felt I ought to do for oth­ers’ sake as much as his.

“His pow­ers, as you heard, were sur­pris­ing­ly wellde­vel­oped for such a young wiz­ard and — most in­ter­est­ing­ly and omi­nous­ly of all — he had al­ready dis­cov­ered that he had some mea­sure of con­trol over them, and be­gun to use them con­scious­ly. And as you saw, they were not the ran­dom ex­per­iments typ­ical of young wiz­ards: He was al­ready us­ing mag­ic against oth­er peo­ple, to fright­en, to pun­ish, to con­trol. The lit­tle sto­ries of the stran­gled rab­bit and the young boy and girl he lured in­to a cave were most sug­ges­tive. . . . ‘I can make them hurt if I want to. . . .’”

“And he was a Parsel­mouth,” in­ter­ject­ed Har­ry.

“Yes, in­deed; a rare abil­ity, and one sup­pos­ed­ly con­nect­ed with the Dark Arts, al­though as we know, there are Parsel­mouths among the great and the good too. In fact, his abil­ity to speak to ser­pents did not make me near­ly as un­easy as his ob­vi­ous in­stincts for cru­el­ty, se­cre­cy, and dom­ina­tion.

“Time is mak­ing fools of us again,” said Dum­ble­dore, in­di­cat­ing the dark sky be­yond the win­dows. “But be­fore we part, I want to draw your at­ten­tion to cer­tain fea­tures of the scene we have just wit­nessed, for they have a great bear­ing on the mat­ters we shall be dis­cussing in fu­ture meet­in­gs.

“First­ly, I hope you no­ticed Rid­dle’s re­ac­tion when I men­tioned that an­oth­er shared his first name, ‘Tom’?”

Har­ry nod­ded.

“There he showed his con­tempt for any­thing that tied him to oth­er peo­ple, any­thing that made him or­di­nary. Even then, he wished to be dif­fer­ent, sep­arate, no­to­ri­ous. He shed his name, as you know, with­in a few short years of that con­ver­sa­tion and cre­at­ed the mask of ‘Lord Volde­mort’ be­hind which he has been hid­den for so long.

“I trust that you al­so no­ticed that Tom Rid­dle was al­ready high­ly self­suf­fi­cient, se­cre­tive, and, ap­par­ent­ly, friend­less? He did not want help or com­pan­ion­ship on his trip to Di­agon Al­ley. He pre­ferred to op­er­ate alone. The adult Volde­mort is the same. You will hear many of his Death Eaters claim­ing that they are in his con­fi­dence, that they alone are close to him, even un­der­stand him. They are de­lud­ed. Lord Volde­mort has nev­er had a friend, nor do I be­lieve that he has ev­er want­ed one.

“And last­ly — I hope you are not too sleepy to pay at­ten­tion to this, Har­ry — the young Tom Rid­dle liked to col­lect tro­phies. You saw the box of stolen ar­ti­cles he had hid­den in his room. These were tak­en from vic­tims of his bul­ly­ing be­hav­ior, sou­venirs, if you will, of par­tic­ular­ly un­pleas­ant bits of mag­ic. Bear in mind this mag­pielike ten­den­cy, for this, par­tic­ular­ly, will be im­por­tant lat­er.

“And now, it re­al­ly is time for bed.”

Har­ry got to his feet. As he walked across the room, his eyes fell I up­on the lit­tle ta­ble on which Mar­vo­lo Gaunt’s ring had rest­ed last I time, but the ring was no longer there.

“Yes, Har­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore, for Har­ry had come to a halt.

“The ring’s gone,” said Har­ry, look­ing around. “But I thought I you might have the mouth or­gan or some­thing.”

Dum­ble­dore beamed at him, peer­ing over the top of his halfw moon spec­ta­cles.

“Very as­tute, Har­ry, but the mouth or­gan was on­ly ev­er a mouth or­gan.”

And on that enig­mat­ic note he waved to Har­ry, who un­der­stood him­self to be dis­missed.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 14: Felix Felicis


Har­ry had Her­bol­ogy first thing the fol­low­ing morn­ing. He had been un­able to tell Ron and Hermione about his les­son with Dum­ble­dore over break­fast for fear of be­ing over­heard, but he filled them in as they walked across the veg­etable patch to­ward the green­hous­es. The week­end’s bru­tal wind had died out at last; the weird mist had re­turned and it took them a lit­tle longer than usu­al to find the cor­rect green­house.

“Wow, scary thought, the boy YouKnowWho,” said Ron qui­et­ly, as they took their places around one of the gnarled Snar­galuff stumps that formed this terms project, and be­gan pulling on their pro­tec­tive gloves. “But I still don’t get why Dum­ble­dore’s show­ing you all this. I mean, it’s re­al­ly in­ter­est­ing and ev­ery­thing, but what’s the point?”

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry, in­sert­ing a gum shield. “But he says its all im­por­tant and it’ll help me sur­vive.”

“I think it’s fas­ci­nat­ing,” said Hermione earnest­ly. “It makes ab­so­lute sense to know as much about Volde­mort as pos­si­ble. How else will you find out his weak­ness­es?”

“So how was Slughorn’s lat­est par­ty?” Har­ry asked her thick­ly through the gum shield.

“Oh, it was quite fun, re­al­ly,” said Hermione, now putting on pro­tec­tive gog­gles. “I mean, he drones on about fa­mous ex­ploits a bit, and he ab­so­lute­ly fawns on McLaggen be­cause he’s so well con­nect­ed, but he gave us some re­al­ly nice food and he in­tro­duced us to Gwenog Jones.”

“Gwenog Jones?” said Ron, his eyes widen­ing un­der his own gog­gles. “The Gwenog Jones? Cap­tain of the Holy­head Harpies?”

“That’s right,” said Hermione. “Per­son­al­ly, I thought she was a bit full of her­self, but —”

“Quite enough chat over here!” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout briskly, bustling over and look­ing stern. “You’re lag­ging be­hind, ev­ery­body else has start­ed, and Neville’s al­ready got his first pod!”

They looked around; sure enough, there sat Neville with a bloody lip and sev­er­al nasty scratch­es along the side of his face, but clutch­ing an un­pleas­ant­ly pul­sat­ing green ob­ject about the size of a grape­fruit.

“Okay, Pro­fes­sor, we’re start­ing now!” said Ron, adding qui­et­ly, when she had turned away again, “should ve used Muf­flia­to, Har­ry.”

“No, we shouldn’t!” said Hermione at once, look­ing, as she al­ways did, in­tense­ly cross at the thought of the Half­Blood Prince and his spells. “Well, come on … we’d bet­ter get go­ing. …”

She gave the oth­er two an ap­pre­hen­sive look; they all took deep breaths and then dived at the gnarled stump be­tween them.

It sprang to life at once; long, prick­ly, bram­ble­like vines flew out of the top and whipped through the air. One tan­gled it­self in Hermione’s hair, and Ron beat it back with a pair of se­ca­teurs; Har­ry suc­ceed­ed in trap­ping a cou­ple of vines and knot­ting them to­geth­er; a hole opened in the mid­dle of all the ten­ta­cle­like branch­es; Hermione plunged her arm brave­ly in­to this hole, which closed like a trap around her el­bow; Har­ry and Ron tugged and wrenched at the vines, forc­ing the hole to open again, and Her­mi­one snatched her arm free, clutch­ing in her fin­gers a pod just like Neville’s. At once, the prick­ly vines shot back in­side, and the gnarled stump sat there look­ing like an in­no­cent­ly dead lump of wood.

“You know, I don’t think I’ll be hav­ing any of these in my gar­den when I’ve got my own place,” said Ron, push­ing his gog­gles up on­to his fore­head and wip­ing sweat from his face.

“Pass me a bowl,” said Hermione, hold­ing the pul­sat­ing pod at arm’s length; Har­ry hand­ed one over and she dropped the pod in­to it with a look of dis­gust on her face.

“Don’t be squeamish, squeeze it out, they’re best when they’re fresh!” called Pro­fes­sor Sprout.

“Any­way,” said Hermione, con­tin­uing their in­ter­rupt­ed con­ver­sa­tion as though a lump of wood had not just at­tacked them, “Slughorn’s go­ing to have a Christ­mas par­ty, Har­ry, and there’s no way you’ll be able to wrig­gle out of this one be­cause he ac­tu­al­ly asked me to check your free evenings, so he could be sure to have it on a night you can come.”

Har­ry groaned. Mean­while, Ron, who was at­tempt­ing to burst the pod in the bowl by putting both hands on it, stand­ing up, and squash­ing it as hard as he could, said an­gri­ly, “And this is an­oth­er par­ty just for Slughorn’s fa­vorites, is it?”

“Just for the Slug Club, yes,” said Hermione.

The pod flew out from un­der Ron’s fin­gers and hit the green house glass, re­bound­ing on­to the back of Pro­fes­sor Sprout’s head and knock­ing off her old, patched hat. Har­ry went to re­trieve the pod; when he got back, Hermione was say­ing, “Look, I didn’t make up the name ‘Slug Club’ —”

“‘Slug Club,’”re­peat­ed Ron with a sneer wor­thy of Mal­foy. “It’s pa­thet­ic. Well, I hope you en­joy your par­ty. Why don’t you try hook­ing up with McLaggen, then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug —”

“We’re al­lowed to bring guests,” said Hermione, who for some rea­son had turned a bright, boil­ing scar­let, “and I was go­ing to ask you to come, but if you think it’s that stupid then I won’t both­er!”

Har­ry sud­den­ly wished the pod had flown a lit­tle far­ther, so that he need not have been sit­ting here with the pair of them. Un­no­ticed by ei­ther, he seized the bowl that con­tained the pod and be­gan to try and open it by the nois­iest and most en­er­get­ic means he could think of; un­for­tu­nate­ly, he could still hear ev­ery word of their con­ver­sa­tion.

“You were go­ing to ask me?” asked Ron, in a com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent voice.

“Yes,” said Hermione an­gri­ly. “But ob­vi­ous­ly if you’d rather 1 hooked up with McLaggen …”

There was a pause while Har­ry con­tin­ued to pound the re­silient pod with a trow­el.

“No, I wouldn’t,” said Ron, in a very qui­et voice.

Har­ry missed the pod, hit the bowl, and shat­tered it.

‘”Reparo,”‘ he said hasti­ly, pok­ing the pieces with his wand, and the bowl sprang back to­geth­er again. The crash, how­ev­er, ap­peared to have awo­ken Ron and Hermione to Har­ry’s pres­ence. Hermione looked flus­tered and im­me­di­ate­ly start­ed fuss­ing about for her copy of “FleshEat­ing Trees of the World” to find out the cor­rect way to juice Snar­galuff pods; Ron, on the oth­er hand, looked sheep­ish but al­so rather pleased with him­self.

“Hand that over, Har­ry,” said Hermione hur­ried­ly. “It says we’re sup­posed to punc­ture them with some­thing sharp. . . .”

Har­ry passed her the pod in the bowl; he and Ron both snapped their gog­gles back over their eyes and dived, once more, for the stump. It was not as though he was re­al­ly sur­prised, thought Har­ry, as he wres­tled with a thorny vine in­tent up­on throt­tling him; he had had an inkling that this might hap­pen soon­er or lat­er. But he was not sure how he felt about it. … He and Cho were now too em­bar­rassed to look at each oth­er, let alone talk to each oth­er; what if Ron and Hermione start­ed go­ing out to­geth­er, then split up? Could their friend­ship sur­vive it? Har­ry re­mem­bered the few weeks when they had not been talk­ing to each oth­er in the third year; he had not en­joyed try­ing to bridge the dis­tance be­tween them. And then, what if they didn’t split up? What if they be­came like Bill and Fleur, and it be­came ex­cru­ci­at­ing­ly em­bar­rass­ing to be in their pres­ence, so that he was shut out for good?

“Gotcha!” yelled Ron, pulling a sec­ond pod from the stump just as Hermione man­aged to burst the first one open, so that the bowl was full of tu­bers wrig­gling like pale green worms.

The rest of the les­son passed with­out fur­ther men­tion of Slughorn’s par­ty. Al­though Har­ry watched his two friends more close­ly over the next few days, Ron and Hermione did not seem any dif­fer­ent ex­cept that they were a lit­tle po­liter to each oth­er than usu­al. Har­ry sup­posed he would just have to wait to see what

hap­pened un­der the in­flu­ence of but­ter­beer in Slughorn’s dim­ly lit room on the night of the par­ty. In the mean­time, how­ev­er, he had more press­ing wor­ries.

Katie Bell was still in St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal with no prospect of leav­ing, which meant that the promis­ing Gryffind­or team Har­ry had been train­ing so care­ful­ly since Septem­ber was one Chas­er short. He kept putting off re­plac­ing Katie in the hope that she would re­turn, but their open­ing match against Slytherin was loom­ing, and he fi­nal­ly had to ac­cept that she would not be back in time to play.

Har­ry did not think he could stand an­oth­er full­House try­out. With a sink­ing feel­ing that had lit­tle to do with Quid­ditch, he cor­nered Dean Thomas af­ter Trans­fig­ura­tion one day. Most of the class had al­ready left, al­though sev­er­al twit­ter­ing yel­low birds were still zoom­ing around the room, all of Hermione’s cre­ation; no­body else had suc­ceed­ed in con­jur­ing so much as a feath­er from thin air.

“Are you still in­ter­est­ed in play­ing Chas­er?”

“Wha — ? Yeah, of course!” said Dean ex­cit­ed­ly. Over Dean’s shoul­der, Har­ry saw Sea­mus Finnegan slam­ming his books in­to his bag, look­ing sour. One of the rea­sons why Har­ry would have pre­ferred not to have to ask Dean to play was that he knew Sea­mus would not like it. On the oth­er hand, he had to do what was best for the team, and Dean had out­flown Sea­mus at the try­outs.

“Well then, you’re in,” said Har­ry. “There’s a prac­tice tonight, sev­en o’clock.”

“Right,” said Dean. “Cheers, Har­ry! Blimey, I can’t wait to tell Gin­ny!”

He sprint­ed out of the room, leav­ing Har­ry and Sea­mus alone to­geth­er, an un­com­fort­able mo­ment made no eas­ier when a bird drop­ping land­ed on Sea­mus’s head as one of Hermione’s ca­nar­ies whizzed over them.

Sea­mus was not the on­ly per­son dis­grun­tled by the choice of Katie’s sub­sti­tute. There was much mut­ter­ing in the com­mon room about the fact that Har­ry had now cho­sen two of his class­mates for the team. As Har­ry had en­dured much worse mut­ter­in­gs than this in his school ca­reer, he was not par­tic­ular­ly both­ered, but all the same, the pres­sure was in­creas­ing to pro­vide a win in the up­com­ing match against Slytherin. If Gryffind­or won, Har­ry knew that the whole House would for­get that they had crit­icized him and swear that they had al­ways known it was a great team. If they lost. . . well, Har­ry thought wry­ly, he had still en­dured worse mut­ter­in­gs. . . .

Har­ry had no rea­son to re­gret his choice once he saw Dean fly that evening; he worked well with Gin­ny and Demelza. The Beat­ers, Peakes and Coote, were get­ting bet­ter all the time. The on­ly prob­lem was Ron.

Har­ry had known all along that Ron was an in­con­sis­tent play­er who suf­fered from nerves and a lack of con­fi­dence, and un­for­tu­nate­ly, the loom­ing prospect of the open­ing game of the sea­son seemed to have brought out all his old in­se­cu­ri­ties. Af­ter let­ting in half a dozen goals, most of them scored by Gin­ny, his tech­nique be­came wilder and wilder, un­til he fi­nal­ly punched an on­com­ing Demelza Robins in the mouth.

“It was an ac­ci­dent, I’m sor­ry, Demelza, re­al­ly sor­ry!” Ron shout­ed af­ter her as she zigzagged back to the ground, drip­ping blood ev­ery­where. “I just —”

“Pan­icked,” Gin­ny said an­gri­ly, land­ing next to Demelza and ex­am­in­ing her fat lip. “You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!”

“I can fix that,” said Har­ry, land­ing be­side the two girls, point­ing his wand at Demelzas mouth, and say­ing “Episkey.” “And Gin­ny, don’t call Ron a prat, you’re not the Cap­tain of this team —”

“Well, you seemed too busy to call him a prat and I thought some­one should —”

Har­ry forced him­self not to laugh.

“In the air, ev­ery­one, let’s go. . . .”

Over­all it was one of the worst prac­tices they had had all term, though Har­ry did not feel that hon­es­ty was the best pol­icy when they were this close to the match.

“Good work, ev­ery­one, I think we’ll flat­ten Slytherin,” he said brac­ing­ly, and the Chasers and Beat­ers left the chang­ing room look­ing rea­son­ably hap­py with them­selves.

“I played like a sack of drag­on dung,” said Ron in a hol­low voice when the door had swung shut be­hind Gin­ny.

“No, you didn’t,” said Har­ry firm­ly. “You’re the best Keep­er I tried out, Ron. Your on­ly prob­lem is nerves.”

He kept up a re­lent­less flow of en­cour­age­ment all the way back to the cas­tle, and by the time they reached the sec­ond floor, Ron was look­ing marginal­ly more cheer­ful. When Har­ry pushed open the tapestry to take their usu­al short­cut up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, how­ev­er, they found them­selves look­ing at Dean and Gin­ny, who were locked in a close em­brace and kiss­ing fierce­ly as though glued to­geth­er.

It was as though some­thing large and scaly erupt­ed in­to life in Har­ry’s stom­ach, claw­ing at his in­sides: Hot blood seemed to flood his brain, so that all thought was ex­tin­guished, re­placed by a sav­age urge to jinx Dean in­to a jel­ly. Wrestling with this sud­den mad­ness, he heard Ron’s voice as though from a great dis­tance away.

“Oi!”

Dean and Gin­ny broke apart and looked around. “What?” said Gin­ny.

“I don’t want to find my own sis­ter snog­ging peo­ple in pub­lic!” “This was a de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor till you came butting in!” said Gin­ny.

Dean was look­ing em­bar­rassed. He gave Har­ry a shifty grin that Har­ry did not re­turn, as the new­born mon­ster in­side him was roar­ing for Dean’s in­stant dis­missal from the team.

“Er . . . c’mon, Gin­ny,” said Dean, “let’s go back to the com­mon room. …”

“You go!” said Gin­ny. “I want a word with my dear broth­er!” Dean left, look­ing as though he was not sor­ry to de­part the scene.

“Right,” said Gin­ny, toss­ing her long red hair out of her face and glar­ing at Ron, “let’s get this straight once and for all. It is none of your busi­ness who I go out with or what I do with them, Ron —” “Yeah, it is!” said Ron, just as an­gri­ly. “D’ you think I want peo­ple say­ing my sis­ter’s a —”

“A what?” shout­ed Gin­ny, draw­ing her wand. “A what, ex­act­ly?” “He doesn’t mean any­thing, Gin­ny —” said Har­ry au­tomati­cal­ly, though the mon­ster was roar­ing its ap­proval of Ron’s words. “Oh yes he does!” she said, flar­ing up at Har­ry. “Just be­cause he’s nev­er snogged any­one in his life, just be­cause the best kiss he’s ev­er had is from our Aun­tie Muriel —”

“Shut your mouth!” bel­lowed Ron, by­pass­ing red and turn­ing ma­roon.

“No, I will not!” yelled Gin­ny, be­side her­self. “I’ve seen you with Phlegm, hop­ing she’ll kiss you on the cheek ev­ery time you see her, it’s pa­thet­ic! If you went out and got a bit of snog­ging done your self, you wouldn’t mind so much that ev­ery­one else does it!”

Ron had pulled out his wand too; Har­ry stepped swift­ly be­tween them.

“You don’t know what you’re talk­ing about!” Ron roared, try­ing to get a clear shot at Gin­ny around Har­ry, who was now stand­ing in front of her with his arms out­stretched. “Just be­cause I don’t do it in pub­lic — !”

Gin­ny screamed with de­ri­sive laugh­ter, try­ing to push Har­ry out of the way.

“Been kiss­ing Pig­wid­geon, have you? Or have you got a pic­ture of Aun­tie Muriel stashed un­der your pil­low?” You —

A streak of or­ange light flew un­der Har­rys left arm and missed Gin­ny by inch­es; Har­ry pushed Ron up against the wall.

“Don’t be stupid —”

“Har­ry’s snogged Cho Chang!” shout­ed Gin­ny, who sound­ed close to tears now. “And Hermione snogged Vik­tor Krum, it’s on­ly you who acts like it’s some­thing dis­gust­ing, Ron, and that’s be­cause you’ve got about as much ex­pe­ri­ence as a twelveyearold!”

And with that, she stormed away. Har­ry quick­ly let go of Ron; the look on his face was mur­der­ous. They both stood there, breath­ing heav­ily, un­til Mrs. Nor­ris, Rich’s cat, ap­peared around the cor­ner, which broke the ten­sion.

“C’mon,” said Har­ry, as the sound of Filch’s shuf­fling feet reached their ears.

They hur­ried up the stairs and along a sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor. “Oi, out of the way!” Ron barked at a small girl who jumped in fright and dropped a bot­tle of toad­spawn.

Har­ry hard­ly no­ticed the sound of shat­ter­ing glass; he felt dis­ori­ent­ed, dizzy; be­ing struck by a light­ning bolt must be some­thing like this. It’s just be­cause she’s Ron’s sis­ter, he told him­self. You just didn’t like see­ing her kiss­ing Dean be­cause she’s Ron’s sis­ter. . . .

But un­bid­den in­to his mind came an im­age of that same de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor with him­self kiss­ing Gin­ny in­stead. . . . The mon­ster in his chest purred . . . but then he saw Ron rip­ping open the tapestry cur­tain and draw­ing his wand on Har­ry, shout­ing things like “be­tray­al of trust” . . . “sup­posed to be my friend” . . .

“D’you think Hermione did snog Krum?” Ron asked abrupt­ly, as they ap­proached the Fat La­dy. Har­ry gave a guilty start and wrenched his imag­ina­tion away from a cor­ri­dor in which no Ron in­trud­ed, in which he and Gin­ny were quite alone — “What?” he said con­fus­ed­ly. “Oh … er …” The hon­est an­swer was “yes,” but he did not want to give it. How­ev­er, Ron seemed to gath­er the worst from the look on Har­ry’s face.

“Dil­li­grout,” he said dark­ly to the Fat La­dy, and they climbed through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room.

Nei­ther of them men­tioned Gin­ny or Hermione again; in­deed, they bare­ly spoke to each oth­er that evening and got in­to bed in si­lence, each ab­sorbed in his own thoughts,

Har­ry lay awake for a long time, look­ing up at the canopy of his four­poster and try­ing to con­vince him­self that his feel­in­gs for Gin­ny were en­tire­ly el­der­broth­er­ly. They had lived, had they not, like broth­er and sis­ter all sum­mer, play­ing Quid­ditch, teas­ing Ron, and hav­ing a laugh about Bill and Phlegm? He had known Gin­ny for years now. … It was nat­ural that he should feel pro­tec­tive . . . nat­ural that he should want to look out for her . . . want to rip Dean limb from limb for kiss­ing her… No … he would have to con­trol that par­tic­ular broth­er­ly feel­ing. . . .

Ron gave a great grunt­ing snore.

She’s Ron’s sis­ter, Har­ry told him­self firm­ly. Ron’s sis­ter. She’s out­of­bounds. He would not risk his friend­ship with Ron for any­thing. He punched his pil­low in­to a more com­fort­able shape and wait­ed for sleep to come, try­ing his ut­most not to al­low his thoughts to stray any­where near Gin­ny.

Har­ry awoke next morn­ing feel­ing slight­ly dazed and con­fused by a se­ries of dreams in which Ron had chased him with a Beat­er’s bat, but by mid­day he would have hap­pi­ly ex­changed the dream Ron for the re­al one, who was not on­ly cold­shoul­der­ing Gin­ny and Dean, but al­so treat­ing a hurt and be­wil­dered Hermione with an icy, sneer­ing in­dif­fer­ence. What was more, Ron seemed to have be­come, overnight, as touchy and ready to lash out as the av­er­age Blas­tEnd­ed Skrewt. Har­ry spent the day at­tempt­ing to keep the peace be­tween Ron and Hermione with no suc­cess; fi­nal­ly, Hermione de­part­ed for bed in high dud­geon, and Ron stalked off to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ry af­ter swear­ing an­gri­ly at sev­er­al fright­ened first years for look­ing at him.

To Har­ry’s dis­may, Ron’s new ag­gres­sion did not wear off over the next few days. Worse still, it co­in­cid­ed with an even deep­er dip in his Keep­ing skills, which made him still more ag­gres­sive, so that dur­ing the fi­nal Quid­ditch prac­tice be­fore Sat­ur­days match, he failed to save ev­ery sin­gle goal the Chasers aimed at him, but bel­lowed at ev­ery­body so much that he re­duced Demelza Robins to tears.

“You shut up and leave her alone!” shout­ed Peakes, who was about twothirds Ron’s height, though ad­mit­ted­ly car­ry­ing a heavy bat.

“ENOUGH!” bel­lowed Har­ry, who had seen Gin­ny glow­er­ing in Ron’s di­rec­tion and, re­mem­ber­ing her rep­uta­tion as an ac­com­plished cast­er of the Bat­Bo­gey Hex, soared over to in­ter­vene be­fore things got out of hand. “Peakes, go and pack up the Bludgers. Demelza, pull your­self to­geth­er, you played re­al­ly well to­day, Ron . . .” he wait­ed un­til the rest of the team were out of earshot be­fore say­ing it, “you’re my best mate, but car­ry on treat­ing the rest of them like this and I’m go­ing to kick you off the team.”

He re­al­ly thought for a mo­ment that Ron might hit him, but then some­thing much worse hap­pened: Ron seemed to sag on his broom. all the fight went out of him and he said, “I re­sign. I’m pa­thet­ic.”

“You’re not pa­thet­ic and you’re not re­sign­ing!” said Har­ry fierce­ly, seiz­ing Ron by the front of his robes. “You can save any­thing when you’re on form, it’s a men­tal prob­lem you’ve got!” “You call­ing me men­tal?” “Yeah, maybe I am!”

They glared at each oth­er for a mo­ment, then Ron shook his head weari­ly. “I know you haven’t got any time to find an­oth­er Keep­er, so I’ll play to­mor­row, but if we lose, and we will, I’m tak­ing my­self off the team.”

Noth­ing Har­ry said made any dif­fer­ence. He tried boost­ing Ron’s con­fi­dence all through din­ner, but Ron was too busy be­ing grumpy and surly with Hermione to no­tice. Har­ry per­sist­ed in the com­mon room that evening, but his as­ser­tion that the whole team would be dev­as­tat­ed if Ron left was some­what un­der­mined by the fact that the rest of the team was sit­ting in a hud­dle in a dis­tant cor­ner, clear­ly mut­ter­ing about Ron and cast­ing him nasty looks. Fi­nal­ly Har­ry tried get­ting an­gry again in the hope of pro­vok­ing Ron in­to a de­fi­ant, and hope­ful­ly goal­sav­ing, at­ti­tude, but this strat­egy did not ap­pear to work any bet­ter than en­cour­age­ment; Ron went to bed as de­ject­ed and hope­less as ev­er.

Har­ry lay awake for a very long time in the dark­ness. He did not want to lose the up­com­ing match; not on­ly was it his first as Cap­tain, but he was de­ter­mined to beat Dra­co Mal­foy at Quid­ditch even if he could not yet prove his sus­pi­cions about him. Yet if Ron played as he had done in the last few prac­tices, their chances of win­ning were very slim. . . .

If on­ly there was some­thing he could do to make Ron pull him­self to­geth­er . . . make him play at the top of his form . . . some­thing that would en­sure that Ron had a re­al­ly good day. . . .

And the an­swer came to Har­ry in one, sud­den, glo­ri­ous stroke of in­spi­ra­tion.

Break­fast was the usu­al ex­citable af­fair next morn­ing; the Slytherins hissed and booed loud­ly as ev­ery mem­ber of the Gryffind­or team en­tered the Great Hall. Har­ry glanced at the ceil­ing and saw a clear, pale blue sky: a good omen.

The Gryffind­or ta­ble, a sol­id mass of red and gold, cheered as Har­ry and Ron ap­proached. Har­ry grinned and waved; Ron gri­maced weak­ly and shook his head.

“Cheer up, Ron!” called Laven­der. “I know you’ll be bril­liant!” : Ron ig­nored her.

“Tea?” Har­ry asked him. “Cof­fee? Pump­kin juice?” “Any­thing,” said Ron glum­ly, tak­ing a moody bite of toast.

A few min­utes lat­er Hermione, who had be­come so tired of Ron’s re­cent un­pleas­ant be­hav­ior that she had not come down to break­fast with them, paused on her way up the ta­ble.

“How are you both feel­ing?” she asked ten­ta­tive­ly, her eyes on the back of Ron’s head.

“Fine,” said Har­ry, who was con­cen­trat­ing on hand­ing Ron a glass of pump­kin juice. “There you go, Ron. Drink up.”

Ron had just raised the glass to his lips when Hermione spoke

sharply.

“Don’t drink that, Ron!”

Both Har­ry and Ron looked up at her.

“Why not?” said Ron.

Hermione was now star­ing at Har­ry as though she could not be­lieve her eyes.

“You just put some­thing in that drink.”

“Ex­cuse me?” said Har­ry.

“You heard me. I saw you. You just tipped some­thing in­to Ron’s drink. You’ve got the bot­tle in your hand right now!”

“I dont know what you’re talk­ing about,” said Har­ry, stow­ing the lit­tle bot­tle hasti­ly in his pock­et.

“Ron, I warn you, don’t drink it!” Hermione said again, alarmed, but Ron picked up the glass, drained it in one gulp, and said, “Stop boss­ing me around, Hermione.”

She looked scan­dal­ized. Bend­ing low so that on­ly Har­ry could hear her, she hissed, “You should be ex­pelled for that. I’d nev­er have be­lieved it of you, Har­ry!”

“Look who’s talk­ing,” he whis­pered back. “Con­fund­ed any­one late­ly?”

She stormed up the ta­ble away from them. Har­ry watched her go with­out re­gret. Hermione had nev­er re­al­ly un­der­stood what a se­ri­ous busi­ness Quid­ditch was. He then looked around at Ron, who was smack­ing his lips.

“Near­ly time/’ said Har­ry blithe­ly.

The frosty grass crunched un­der­foot as they strode down to the sta­di­um.

“Pret­ty lucky the weath­ers this good, eh?” Har­ry asked Ron.

“Yeah,” said Ron, who was pale and sick­look­ing.

Gin­ny and Demelza were al­ready wear­ing their Quid­ditch robes and wait­ing in the chang­ing room.

“Con­di­tions look ide­al,” said Gin­ny, ig­nor­ing Ron. “And guess what? That Slytherin Chas­er Vaisey — he took a Bludger in the head yes­ter­day dur­ing their prac­tice, and he’s too sore to play! And even bet­ter than that — Mal­foy’s gone off sick too!”

“What?” said Har­ry, wheel­ing around to stare at her. “He’s ill? What’s wrong with him?”

“No idea, but it’s great for us,” said Gin­ny bright­ly. “They’re play­ing Harp­er in­stead; he’s in my year and he’s an id­iot.”

Har­ry smiled back vague­ly, but as he pulled on his scar­let robes his mind was far from Quid­ditch. Mal­foy had once be­fore claimed he could not play due to in­ju­ry, but on that oc­ca­sion he had made sure the whole match was resched­uled for a time that suit­ed the Slytherins bet­ter. Why was he now hap­py to let a sub­sti­tute go on? Was he re­al­ly ill, or was he fak­ing?

“Fishy, isn’t it?” he said in an un­der­tone to Ron. “Mal­foy not play­ing?”

“Lucky, I call it,” said Ron, look­ing slight­ly more an­imat­ed. “And Vaisey off too, he’s their best goal scor­er, I didn’t fan­cy — hey!” he said sud­den­ly, freez­ing halfway through pulling on his Keep­ers gloves and star­ing at Har­ry.

“What?”

“I… you . . .” Ron had dropped his voice, he looked both scared and ex­cit­ed. “My drink … my pump­kin juice … you didn’t…?”

Har­ry raised his eye­brows, but said noth­ing ex­cept, “We’ll be start­ing in about five min­utes, you’d bet­ter get your boots on.”

They walked out on­to the pitch to tu­mul­tu­ous roars and boos. One end of the sta­di­um was sol­id red and gold; the oth­er, a sea of green and sil­ver. Many Huf­flepuffs and Raven­claws had tak­en sides too: Amidst all the yelling and clap­ping Har­ry could dis­tinct­ly hear the roar of Lu­na Love­good’s fa­mous li­on­topped hat.

Har­ry stepped up to Madam Hooch, the ref­er­ee, who was stand­ing ready to re­lease the balls from the crate.

“Cap­tains shake hands,” she said, and Har­ry had his hand crushed by the new Slytherin Cap­tain, Urquhart. “Mount your brooms. On the whis­tle . . . three . . . two . . . one . . .”

The whis­tle sound­ed, Har­ry and the oth­ers kicked off hard from the frozen ground, and they were away.

Har­ry soared around the per­ime­ter of the grounds, look­ing around for the Snitch and keep­ing one eye on Harp­er, who was zigzag­ging far be­low him. Then a voice that was jar­ring­ly dif­fer­ent to the usu­al com­men­ta­tor’s start­ed up.

“Well, there they go, and I think we’re all sur­prised to see the team that Pot­ter’s put to­geth­er this year. Many thought, giv­en Ronald Weasley’s patchy per­for­mance as Keep­er last year, that he might be off the team, but of course, a close per­son­al friend­ship with the Cap­tain does help. . . .”

These words were greet­ed with jeers and ap­plause from the Slytherin end of the pitch. Har­ry craned around on his broom to look to­ward the com­men­ta­tor’s po­di­um. A call, skin­ny blond buy with an up­turned nose was stand­ing there, talk­ing in­to the mag­ical mega­phone that had once been Lee Jor­dan’s; Har­ry rec­og­nized Zacharias Smith, a Huf­flepuff play­er whom he hearti­ly dis­liked.

“Oh, and here comes Slytherin’s first at­tempt on goal, it’s Urquhart streak­ing down the pitch and —”

Har­rys stom­ach turned over.

“— Weasley saves it, well, he’s bound to get lucky some­times, I sup­pose. . . .”

“That’s right, Smith, he is,” mut­tered Har­ry, grin­ning to him­self, as he dived amongst the Chasers with his eyes search­ing all around for some hint of the elu­sive Snitch.

With half an hour of the game gone, Gryffind­or were lead­ing six­ty points to ze­ro, Ron hav­ing made some tru­ly spec­tac­ular saves, some by the very tips of his gloves, and Gin­ny hav­ing scored four of Gryffind­or’s six goals. This ef­fec­tive­ly stopped Zacharias won­de­ring loud­ly whether the two Weasleys were on­ly there be­cause Har­ry liked them, and he start­ed on Peakes and Coote in­stead.

“Of course, Coote isn’t re­al­ly the usu­al build for a Beat­er,” said Zacharias lofti­ly, “they’ve gen­er­al­ly got a bit more mus­cle —”

“Hit a Bludger at him!” Har­ry called to Coote as he zoomed past, but Coote, grin­ning broad­ly, chose to aim the next Bludger at Harp­er in­stead, who was just pass­ing Har­ry in the op­po­site di­rec­tion. Har­ry was pleased to hear the dull thunk that meant the Bludger had found its mark.

It seemed as though Gryffind­or could do no wrong. Again and again they scored, and again and again, at the oth­er end of the pitch, Ron saved goals with ap­par­ent ease. He was ac­tu­al­ly smil­ing now, and when the crowd greet­ed a par­tic­ular­ly good save with a

rous­ing cho­rus of the old fa­vorite “Weasley Is Our King,” he pre­tend­ed to con­duct them from on high.

“Thinks he’s some­thing spe­cial to­day, doesn’t he?” said a snide voice, and Har­ry was near­ly knocked off his broom as Harp­er col­lid­ed with him hard and de­lib­er­ate­ly. “Your blood­traitor pal…” Madam Hooch’s back was turned, and though Gryffind­ors be­low shout­ed in anger, by the time she looked around, Harp­er had al­ready sped off. His shoul­der aching, Har­ry raced af­ter him, de­ter­mined to ram him back. …

“And I think Harp­er of Slytherin’s seen the Snitch!” said Zacharias Smith through his mega­phone. “Yes, he’s cer­tain­ly seen some­thing Pot­ter hasn’t!”

Smith re­al­ly was an id­iot, thought Har­ry, hadn’t he no­ticed them col­lide? But next mo­ment, his stom­ach seemed to drop out of the , sky — Smith was right and Har­ry was wrong: Harp­er had not sped up­ward at ran­dom; he had spot­ted what Har­ry had not: The Snitch was speed­ing along high above them, glint­ing bright­ly against the clear blue sky.

Har­ry ac­cel­er­at­ed; the wind was whistling in his ears so that it drowned all sound of Smith’s com­men­tary or the crowd, but Harp­er was still ahead of him, and Gryffind­or was on­ly a hun­dred points up; if Harp­er got there first Gryffind­or had lost. . . and now Harp­er was feet from it, his hand out­stretched. …

“Oi, Harp­er!” yelled Har­ry in des­per­ation. “How much did Mal­foy pay you to come on in­stead of him?”

He did not know what made him say it, but Harp­er did a dou­ble­take; he fum­bled the Snitch, let it slip through his fin­gers, and shot right past it. Har­ry made a great swipe for the tiny, flut­ter­ing ball and caught it.

“YES!” Hairy yelled. Wheel­ing around, he hur­tled back to­ward the ground, the Snitch held high in his hand. As the crowd re­al­ized what had hap­pened, a great shout went up that al­most drowned the sound of the whis­tle that sig­naled the end of the game.

“Gin­ny, where’re you go­ing?” yelled Har­ry, who had found hint self trapped in the midst of a mass midair hug with the rest of tin1 team, but Gin­ny sped right on past them un­til, with an almighty crash, she col­lid­ed with the com­men­ta­tors po­di­um. As the crowd shrieked and laughed, the Gryffind­or team land­ed be­side the wreck­age of wood un­der which Zacharias was fee­bly stir­ring,: Har­ry heard Gin­ny say­ing blithe­ly to an irate Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “For­got to brake, Pro­fes­sor, sor­ry.”

Laugh­ing, Har­ry broke free of the rest of the team and hugged Gin­ny, but let go very quick­ly. Avoid­ing her gaze, he clapped cheer­ing Ron on the back in­stead as, all en­mi­ty for­got­ten, the Gryffind­or team left the pitch arm in arm, punch­ing the air ami wav­ing to their sup­port­ers.

The at­mo­sphere in the chang­ing room was ju­bi­lant. “Par­ty up in the com­mon room, Sea­mus said!” yelled Dean ex­uber­ant­ly. “C’mon, Gin­ny, Demelza!”

Ron and Har­ry were the last two in the chang­ing room. They were just about to leave when Hermione en­tered. She was twist­ing her Gryffind­or scarf in her hands and looked up­set but de­ter­mined. “I want a word with you, Har­ry.” She took a deep breath. “Yon shouldn’t have done it. You heard Slughorn, its il­le­gal.” “What are you go­ing to do, turn us in?” de­mand­ed Ron. “What are you two talk­ing about?” asked Har­ry, turn­ing away to hang up his robes so that nei­ther of them would see him grin­ning, “You know per­fect­ly well what we’re talk­ing about!” said Hermione shril­ly. “You spiked Rons juice with lucky po­tion at break­fast! I’elix Fe­li­cis!”

“No, I didn’t,” said Har­ry, turn­ing back to face them both.

“Yes you did, Har­ry, and that’s why ev­ery­thing went right, there were Slytherin play­ers miss­ing and Ron saved ev­ery­thing!”

“I didn’t put it in!” said Har­ry, grin­ning broad­ly. He slipped his hand in­side his jack­et pock­et and drew out the tiny bot­tle that Hermione had seen in his hand that morn­ing. It was full of gold­en po­tion and the cork was still tight­ly sealed with wax. “I want­ed Ron to think I’d done it, so I faked it when I knew you were look­ing.” He looked at Ron. “You saved ev­ery­thing be­cause you felt lucky. You did it all your­self.”

He pock­et­ed the po­tion again.

“There re­al­ly wasn’t any­thing in my pump­kin juice?” Ron said, as­tound­ed. “But the weath­er’s good. . . and Vaisey couldn’t play. … I hon­est­ly haven’t been giv­en lucky po­tion?” ]

Har­ry shook his head. Ron gaped at him for a mo­ment, then round­ed on Hermione, im­itat­ing her voice. “You added Fe­lix Fe­li­cis to Ron’s juice this morn­ing, that’s why he saved ev­ery­thing! See! I can save goals with­out help, Hermione!”

“I nev­er said you couldn’t — Ron, you thought you’d been giv­en it too!”

But Ron had al­ready strode past her out of the door with his broom­stick over his shoul­der.

“Er,” said Har­ry in­to the sud­den si­lence; he had not ex­pect­ed his plan to back­fire like this, “shall. . . shall we go up to the par­ty, then?”

“You go!” said Hermione, blink­ing back tears. “I’m sick of Ron at the mo­ment, I don’t know what I’m sup­posed to have done. . . .”

And she stormed out of the chang­ing room too.

Har­ry walked slow­ly back up the grounds to­ward the cas­tle through the crowd, many of whom shout­ed con­grat­ula­tions at him, but he felt a great sense of let­down; he had been sure that if Ron won the match, he and Hermione would be friends again im­me­di­ate­ly. He did not see how he could pos­si­bly ex­plain to Her­mi­one that what she had done to of­fend Ron was kiss Vik­tor Krum, not when the of­fense had oc­curred so long ago.

Har­ry could not see Hermione at the Gryffind­or cel­ebra­tion par­ty, which was in full swing when he ar­rived. Re­newed cheers and clap­ping greet­ed his ap­pear­an­ce, and he was soon sur­round­ed by a mob of peo­ple con­grat­ulat­ing him. What with try­ing to shake off the Creevey broth­ers, who want­ed a blow­by­blow match anal­ysis, and the large group of girls that en­cir­cled him, laugh­ing at his least amus­ing com­ments and bat­ting their eye­lids, it was some time be­fore he could try and find Ron. At last, he ex­tri­cat­ed him­self from Romil­da Vane, who was hint­ing heav­ily that she would like to go to Slughorn’s Christ­mas par­ty with him. As he was duck­ing to­ward the drinks ta­ble, he walked straight in­to Gin­ny, Arnold the Pygmy Puff rid­ing on her shoul­der and Crook­shanks mew­ing hope­ful­ly at her heels.

“Look­ing for Ron?” she asked, smirk­ing. “He’s over there, the filthy hyp­ocrite.”

Har­ry looked in­to the cor­ner she was in­di­cat­ing. There, in full view of the whole room, stood Ron wrapped so close­ly around Laven­der Brown it was hard to tell whose hands were whose.

“It looks like he’s eat­ing her face, doesn’t it?” said Gin­ny dis­pas­sion­ate­ly. “But I sup­pose he’s got to re­fine his tech­nique some­how. Good game, Har­ry.”

She pat­ted him on the arm; Har­ry felt a swoop­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach, but then she walked off to help her­self to more but­ter­beer. Crook­shanks trot­ted af­ter her, his yel­low eyes fixed up­on Arnold.

Har­ry turned away from Ron, who did not look like he would be sur­fac­ing soon, just as the por­trait hole was clos­ing. With a sink­ing feel­ing, he thought he saw a mane of bushy brown hair whip­ping out of sight.

He dart­ed for­ward, sidestepped Romil­da Vane again, and pushed open the por­trait of the Fat La­dy. The cor­ri­dor out­side , seemed to be de­sert­ed.

“Hermione?”

He found her in the first un­locked class­room he tried. She was sit­ting on the teach­er’s desk, alone ex­cept for a small ring of twit­ter­ing yel­low birds cir­cling her head, which she had clear­ly just con­ju­red out of midair. Har­ry could not help ad­mir­ing her spell­work at a time like this.

“Oh, hel­lo, Har­ry,” she said in a brit­tle voice. “I was just prac­tic­ing.”

“Yeah . . . they’re — er — re­al­ly good. …” said Har­ry.

He had no idea what to say to her. He was just won­der­ing whether there was any chance that she had not no­ticed Ron, that she had mere­ly left the room be­cause the par­ty was a lit­tle too row­dy, when she said, in an un­nat­ural­ly high­pitched voice, “Ron seems to be en­joy­ing the cel­ebra­tions.”

“Er . . . does he?” said Har­ry.

“Don’t pre­tend you didn’t see him,” said Hermione. “He wasn’t ex­act­ly hid­ing it, was — ?”

The door be­hind them burst open. To Har­ry’s hor­ror, Ron came in, laugh­ing, pulling Laven­der by the hand. ; ‘

“Oh,” he said, draw­ing up short at the sight of Har­ry and Hermione.

“Oops!” said Laven­der, and she backed out of the room, gig­gling. The door swung shut be­hind her.

There was a hor­ri­ble, swelling, bil­low­ing si­lence. Hermione was star­ing at Ron, who re­fused to look at her, but said with an odd mix­ture of bra­va­do and awk­ward­ness, “Hi, Har­ry! Won­dered where you’d got to!”

Hermione slid off the desk. The lit­tle flock of gold­en birds con­tin­ued to twit­ter in cir­cles around her head so that she looked like a strange, feath­ery mod­el of the so­lar sys­tem.

“You shouldn’t leave Laven­der wait­ing out­side,” she said qui­et­ly. “She’ll won­der where you’ve gone.”

She walked very slow­ly and erect­ly to­ward the door. Har­ry glanced at Ron, who was look­ing re­lieved that noth­ing worse had hap­pened.

“Op­pug­no!” came a shriek from the door­way.

Har­ry spun around to see Hermione point­ing her wand at Ron, her ex­pres­sion wild: The lit­tle flock of birds was speed­ing like a hail of fat gold­en bul­lets to­ward Ron, who yelped and cov­ered his face with his hands, but the birds at­tacked, peck­ing and claw­ing at ev­ery bit of flesh they could reach.

“Ger­re­moffme!” he yelled, but with one last look of vin­dic­tive fury, Hermione wrenched open the door and dis­ap­peared through it. Har­ry thought he heard a sob be­fore it slammed.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 15: The Unbreakable Vow


Snow was swirling against the icy win­dows once more; Christ­mas was ap­proach­ing fast. Ha­grid had al­ready sin­gle­hand­ed­ly de­liv­ered the usu­al twelve C hrist­mas trees to the Great Hall; gar­lands of hol­ly and tin­sel had been twist­ed around the ban­is­ters of the stairs; ev­er­last­ing can­dles glowed from in­side the hel­mets of suits of ar­mor and great bunch­es of mis­tle­toe had been hung at in­ter­vals along the cor­ri­dors. Large groups of girls tend­ed to con­verge un­der­neath the mis­tle­toe bunch­es ev­ery time Har­ry went past, which caused block­ages in the cor­ri­dors; for­tu­nat e ly, how­ev­er, Har­ry’s fre­quent night­time wan­der­in­gs had giv­en him an un­usu­al­ly good knowl­edge of the cas­tle’s se­cret pas­sage­ways, so that he was of­ten, with­out too much dif­fi­cul­ty, to nav­iga t e mis­tle­toe­free routes be­tween class­es.

Ron, who might once have found the ne­ces­si­ty of these de­tours ex­cuse for jeal­ousy rather than hi­lar­ity, sim­ply roared with laugh­ter about it all. Al­though Har­ry much pre­ferred this new laugh­ing, jok­ing Ron to the moody, ag­gres­sive mod­el he had been en­dur­ing for the last few weeks, the im­proved Ron came at a heavy price. First­ly, Har­ry had to put up with the fre­quent pres­ence of Laven­der Brown, who seemed to re­gard any mo­ment that she was not kiss­ing Ron as a mo­ment wast­ed; and sec­ond­ly, Har­ry found him­self once more the best friend of two peo­ple who seemed un­like­ly ev­er to speak to each oth­er again.

Ron, whose hands and fore­arms still bore scratch­es and cuts from Hermione’s bird at­tack, was tak­ing a de­fen­sive and re­sent­ful tone.

“She can’t com­plain,” he told Har­ry. “She snogged Krum. So she’s found out some­one wants to snog me too. Well, it’s a free coun­try. I haven’t done any­thing wrong.”

Har­ry did not an­swer, but pre­tend­ed to be ab­sorbed in the book they were sup­posed to have read be­fore Charms next morn­ing (Quintessence: A Q uest). De­ter­mined as he was to re­main friends with both Ron and Hermione, he was spend­ing a lot of time with his mouth shut tight.

“I nev­er promised Hermione any­thing , ” Ron mum­bled. “I mean, all right, I was go­ing to go to Slughorn’s Christ­mas par­ty with her, but she nev­er said… just as friends… I’m a free agent…”

Har­ry turned a page of Quintessence, aware that Ron was watch­ing him. Ron’s voice trailed away in mut­ters, bare­ly au­di­ble over the loud crack­ling of the fire, though Har­ry thought he caught the words “Krum” and “Can’t com­plain” again.

Hermione’s sched­ule was so full that Har­ry could on­ly talk to her prop­er­ly in the evenings, when Ron was, in any case, so tight­ly wrapped around Laven­der that he did not no­tice what Har­ry was do­ing. Hermione re­fused to sit in the com­mon room while Ron was there, So Har­ry gen­er­al­ly joined her in the li­brary, which meant that their con­ver­sa­tions were held in whis­pers.

“He’s at per­fect lib­er­ty to kiss whomev­er he likes,” said Hermione, while the li­brar­ian , Madam Pince, prowled the shelves be­hind them. “I re­al­ly couldn’t care less.”

She raised her quill and dot­ted an ‘i’ so fe­ro­cious­ly that she punc­tured a hole in her parch­ment. Har­ry said noth­ing. He thought his voice might soon van­ish from the lack of use. He bent a lit­tle low­er over Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and con­tin­ued to make notes on Ev­er­last­ing Elixirs, oc­ca­sion­al­ly paus­ing to de­ci­pher the p rince’s use­ful ad­di­tions to Li­batius B or­age’s text.

“And in­ci­den­tal­ly,” said Hermione, af­ter a few mo­ments, “you need to be care­ful.”

“For the last time,” said Har­ry, speak­ing in a slight­ly hoarse tone af­ter three­quar­ters of an ho u r of si­lence, “I am not giv­ing back this book . I’ve learned more from the Half­blood p rince than Snape or Slughorn have taught me in–“

“I’m not talk­ing about your stupid so­called prince,” said Hermione , giv­ing his book a nasty look as though it had been rude to her. “I’m tal­ki ng about ear­li­er. I went in­to the girl’s bath­room just be­fore I came in here and there were about a dozen girls in there, in­clud­ing that Romil­da Vane , try­ing to de­cide how to slip you a love po­tion. They’re all hop­ing they’re go­ing to get you to take them to Slughorn’s par­ty, and thay all seem to have bought Fred and George’s love po­tions, which I’m afraid to say prob­ably work –“

“Why didn’t you con­fis­cate them then?” de­mand­ed Har­ry, it seemed ex­traor­di­nary that Hermione’s m ania for up­hold­ing the rules could have aban­doned her at this cru­cial junc­ture.

“They didn’t have the po­tions with them in the bath­room,” said Hermione scorn­ful­ly, “They were just dis­cussing tac­tics. As I doubt the Half­blood prince” she gave the book an­oth­er scorn­ful look “could dream up an an­ti­dote for a dozen dif­fer­ent love po­tions at once, I’d just in­vite some­one to go with you, that’ll stop all the oth­ers think­ing they’ve still got a chance. It’s to­mor r ow night, they’re get­ting des­per­ate.”

“There isn’t any­one I want to in­vite,” mum­bled Har­ry, who was still not try­ing to think about Gin­ny any more than he could help, de­spite the fact the fact that she kept crop­ping up in his dreams in ways that made him de­vout­ly thank­ful that Ron could not per­form Legili­men­cy.

“Well, just be care­ful what you drink, be­cause Romil­da Va ne looked like she meant busi­ness.” said Hermione grim­ly.

She hitched up the long roll of parch­ment on which she was writ­ing her Arith­ma n cy es­say and con­tin­ued to scratch away with her quill. Har­ry wa t che d her with his mind a long way away.

“Hang on a mo­ment,” he said slow­ly. “I thought Filch had banned any­thing bought at Weasley’s Wiz­ard Wheezes?”

“And when has any­one ev­er paid at­ten­tion to what Filch has banned?” asked Hermione, still con­cen­trat­ing on her es­say.

“But I thought all the owls were be­ing searched. So how come these grils are able to bring love po­tions in­to the school?”

“Fred and George send them dis­guised as per­fumes and cough po­tions,” said Hermione. “It’s part of their Owl or­der ser­vice.”

“You know a lot about it.”

Hermione gave him the kind of nasty look she had just giv­en his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing.

“It was all on the back of the bot­tles they showed Gin­ny and me in the sum­mer,” she said cold­ly, “I don’t go around putting po­tions in peo­ple’s drinks… or pre­tend­ing too eit h er, which is just as bad…”

“Yeah, well, nev­er mind that,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “The point is, Filch is be­ing fooled isn’t he? These girls are get­ting stuff in­to the school dis­guised as some­thing else! So why couldn’t Mal­foy have brought the neck­lace in­to the school –?”

“Oh, Har­ry… not that again…”

“Come on, why not?” de­mand­ed Har­ry.

“Look , ” sighed Hermione, “Se­cre­cy Sen­sors de­tect jinx­es, curs­es, and con­ceal­ment charms, don’t they? They’re used to find d ark mag­ic and d ark ob­je c ts. They’d have picked up a pow­er­ful curse , like the one in the neck­lace, withi n sec­onds. But some­thing that’s just been put in the wrong bot­tle wouldn ‘ t reg­is­ter — any­way Love po­tions aren’t d ark or dan­ger­ous -“

“Easy for you to say,” mut­tered Har­ry, think­ing of Romil­da Vane.

“– so it would be down to Filch to re­alise it wasn’t a cough po­tion, and he’s not a very good wiz­ard, I doubt he can tell one po­tion from –“

Hermione stopped dead; Har­ry had heard it too. Some­body had moved close be­hind them among the dark book­shelves. They wait­ed, and a mo­ment lat­er the vul­ture­like coun­te­nance of Madam Pince ap­peared around the cor­ner, her sunken cheeks, her skin like parch­ment, and her long hooked nose il­lu­mi­nat­ed un­flat­ter­ing­ly by the lamp she was car­ry­ing.

“The li­brary is now closed,” she said, “Mind you re­turn any­thing you have bor­rowed to the cor­rect — what have you been do­ing to that book, you de­praved boy?”

“It isn’t the li­brary’s, it’s mine!” said Har­ry hasti­ly, snatch­ing his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing off the ta­ble as she lunged at it with a claw­like hand.

” Spoiled!” she hissed . “Des­ecrat­ed, be­fouled !”

“It’s just a book that’s been writ­ten on!” said Har­ry, tug­ging it out of her grip.

She looked as though she might have a seizure; Hermione, who had hasti­ly packed her things, grabbed Har­ry by the arm and frog­marched him away.

“She’ll ban you from the li­brary if you’re not care­ful. Why did you have to bring that stupid book?”

“It’s not my fault she’s bark­ing mad, Hermione. Or d’you think she over­heard you be­ing rude about Filch? I’ve al­ways thought there might be some­thing be­tween them…”

“Oh, ha ha..”

En­joy­ing the fact that they could speak nor­mal­ly again, they made their way along the de­sert­ed lam­plit cor­ri­dors back to the com­mon room, ar­gu­ing w het­her or not Filch and Madam Pince were se­cret­ly in love with each oth­er.

“Baubles” said Har­ry to the Fat La­dy, this be­ing the new, fes­tive pass­word.

“Same to you,” said the fat la­dy with a rogu­ish grin, and she swung for­ward to ad­mit them.

“Hi, Har­ry!” said Romil­da Vane, the mo­ment he had climbed through the por­trait hole. “Fan­cy a gilly­wa­ter?”

Hermione gave him a “what­didItel­ly­ou?” look over her shoul­der.

“No thanks,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “I don’t like it much.”

“Well, take these any­way,” said Romil­da, thrust­ing a box in­to his hands. “Choco­late Caul­drons, they’ve got firewhiskey in them. My gran sent them to me, but I don’t like them.”

“Oh– right — thanks a lot.” said Har­ry, who could not think what else to say. ” Er– I ‘ m just go­ing over here with …”

He hur­ried off be­hind Hermione, his voice tail­ing away fee­bly.

“Told you,” said Hermione suc­cinct­ly, ” Soon­er you ask some­one, soon­er they’ll all leave you alone and you can –“

But her face sud­dnly turned blank; she had just spot­ted Ron and Laven­der, who were i nter­twined in the same arm­chair.

“Well, good night, Har­ry” said Hermione, though it was on­ly sev­en o’clock in the evening, and she left for the girl s’ dor­mi­to­ry with­out an­oth­er word.

Har­ry went to bed com­fort­ing him­self that there was on­ly one more day of lessons to strug­gle through, plus Slughorn’s par­ty, af­ter which he and Ron would de­part to­geth­er for the B ur­row. It now seemed im­pos­si­ble that Ron and Hermione would make up with each oth­er be­fore the hol­idays be­gan, but per­haps, some­how, the break would give them time to calm down, think bet­ter of their be­hav­ior…

But his hopes were not high, and they sank still low­er af­ter en­dur­ing a Trans­fig­ura­tion les­son with them both next day. They had just em­barked up­on the im­mense­ly dif­fi­cult top­ic of hu­man trans­fig­ura­tion; work­ing in front of mir­rors , they were su­posed to be chang­ing the col­or of their own eye­brows. Hermione laughed un­kind­ly at Ron’s dis­as­trous first at­tempt, dur­ing which he some­how man­aged to give him­self a spec­tac­ular han­dle­bar mus­tache; Ron re­tal­iat­ed by do­ing a cru­el but ac­cu­rate im­pres­sion of Hermione jump­ing up and down in her seat ev­ery time Profe s sor McG­ona­gall asked a ques­tion, which Laven­der and Par­vati found deeply amus­ing and which re­duced Hermione to the verge of tears again. She raced out of the class­room on the bell, leav­ing half her things be­hind; Har­ry, de­cid­ing that her need was greater than Ron’s just now, scooped up her re­main­ing po ss­es­sions and fol­lowed her.

He fi­nal­ly tracked her down as she emerged from a girl’s bath­room on the floor be­low. She was ac­com­pa­nied by Lu­na Love­good, who was pat­ting her vague­ly on the back.

“Oh, hel­lo, Har­ry , ” said Lu­na . ” D id you know one of your eye­brows is bright yel­low?”

“Hi, Lu­na. Hermione , you left your stuff…”

He held out her books.

“Oh, yes,” said Hermione in a choked voice, tak­ing her things and turn­ing away quick­ly to hide the fact she was wip­ing her eyes with her pen­cil case. “Thank you , Har­ry. Well, I’d bet­ter get go­ing…”

And she hur­ried off, with­out ev­er giv­ing Har­ry any time to of­fer words of com­fort, though ad­mit­ted­ly he could not think of any.

“She’s a bit up­set , ” said Lu­na. “I thought at first it was Moan­ing Myr­tle in there, but it turned out to be Hermione. She said some­thing about Ron Weasley…”

“Yeah, they’ve had a row,” said Har­ry.

“He says fun­ny things some­times, doesn’t he?” said Lu­na as they set off down the cor­ri­dor to­geth­er. “But he can be a bit un­kind. I no­ticed that last year.”

” I s’pose , ” said Har­ry. Lu­na was de­mon­strat­ing her usu­al knack of speak­ing un­com­fort­able truths; he had nev­er met any­one quite like her. “So have you had a good term?”

“Oh, it’s been al l right,” said Lu­na. ” A bit lone­ly with­out the D.A. Gin­ny’s been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Trans­fig­ura­tion class call­ing me ‘Loony’ the oth­er day –“

“How would you like to come to S lughorn’s par­ty with me tonight?”

The words were out of Har­ry’s mouth be­fore he could stop them; he heard him­self say them as though it were a stranger speak­ing.

Lu­na turned her pro­tu­ber­ant eyes to him in sur­prise.

“Slughorn’s par­ty? With you?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “We’re sup­posed to bring guests, so I thought you might like.. I mean…” He was keen to make his in­ten­tions per­fect­ly clear. ” I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don’t want to…”

He was al­ready half hop­ing that she didn’t want to.

“O h no, I’d love to go with you as friends!” said Lu­na, beam­ing as he had nev­er seen her beam be­fore. “No­body’s ev­er asked me to a par­ty be­fore, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eye­brow, for the par­ty? Should I dye mine too?”

“No” said Har­ry firm­ly, “That was a mis­take. I’ll get Hermione to put it right for me. So I’ll meet you in the en­trance hall at eight o’clock then . “

“AHA!” screamed a voice from over­head and both of them jumped; un­no­ticed by ei­ther of them, they had just passed un­der­neath Peeves, who was hang­ing up­side down from a chan­de­li­er and grin­ning ma­li­cious­ly at them.

“Pot­ty asked Loony to go to the part y ! Pot­ty lurves Loony! Pot­ty lu­uu­uu­urves Looooony!”

And he zoomed away cack­ling and shriek­ing, “Pot­ty loves Loony!”

“Nice to keep these things pri­vate,” said Har­ry. And sure enough, in no time at all the whole school seemed to know that Har­ry Pot­ter was tak­ing Lu­na Love­good to Slughorn’s par­ty.

“You could’ve tak­en any­one!” said Ron in dis­be­lief over din­ner. “Any­one! And you chose Loony Love­good?”

“Don’t call her that, Ron!” snapped Gin­ny, paus­ing be­hind Har­ry on her way to join friends. “I’m re­al­ly glad you’re tak­ing her Har­ry, she’s so ex­cit­ed.”

And she moved on down the ta­ble to sit with Dean. Har­ry tried to feel pleased that Gin­ny was glad he was tak­ing Lu­na to the par­ty but could not quite man­age it. A long way along the ta­ble Hermione was sit­ting alone, play­ing with her stew. Har­ry no­ticed Ron look­ing at her furtive­ly.

“You could say sor­ry , ” sug­gest­ed Har­ry blunt­ly.

“What , and get at­tacked by an­oth­er flock of ca­nar­ies?” mut­tered Ron.

“What did you have to im­itate her for?”

“She laughed at my mus­tache!”

“So did I, it was the stupi­dest thing I’ve ev­er seen.”

But Ron did not seem to have he a rd; Laven­der had just ar­rived with Par­vati. Squeez­ing her­self in be­tween Har­ry and Ron, Laven­der flung her arms around Ron’s neck.

“Hi, Har­ry,” said Par­vati who, like Har­ry, looked faint­ly em­bar­rassed and bored by the be­hav­ior of their two friends.

“Hi,” said Har­ry, “How’re you? You’re stay­ing at Hog­warts, then? I heard your par­ents want­ed you to leave.”

“I man­aged to talk them out o f it for the time be­ing,” said Par­vati. “That Katie thing re­al­ly freaked them out, but as there hasn’t been any­thing since… Oh, hi, Hermione!”

Par­vati pos­itive­ly beamed. Har­ry could tell that she was feel­ing guilty for hav­ing laughed at Hermione in Trans­fig­ura­tion. He looked around and saw that Hermione was beam­ing back, if pos­si­ble even more bright­ly. Girls were very strange some­times.

“Hi, Par­vati!” said Hermione, ig­nor­ing Ron and Laven­der com­plete­ly. “Are you go­ing to Slughorn’s par­ty tonight?”

“No in­vite,” said Par­vati gloo­mi­ly. “I’d love to go, though, it sounds like it’s go­ing to be re­al­ly good… You’re go­ing, aren’t you?”

“Yes, I’m meet­ing Cor­mac at eight, and we’re -“

There was a noise like a plunger be­ing with­drawn from a blocked sink , and Ron sur­faced. Hermione act­ed as though she had not seen or heard any­thing.

“- we’re go­ing up to the par­ty to­geth­er.”

“Cor­mac?” said Par­vati. “Cor­mac McLaggen, you mean?”

“That’s right,” said Hermione sweet­ly. “The one who *al­most*” - she put a great deal of em­pha­sis on the word - “bec a me Gryffind­or Keep­er.”

“Are you go­ing out with him, then?” asked Par­vati, wideeyed.

“Oh - yes - didn’t you know?” said Harmione, with a most un­Hermioneish gig­gle.

“No!” said Par­vati, look­ing pos­itive­ly agog at thi s piece of gos­sip. “Wow , you like your Quid­ditch play­ers, don’t you? First Krum, then McLaggen.”

“I like *re­al­ly good* Quid­ditch play­ers,” Hermione cor­rect­ed her, still smil­ing. “Well, see you… Got to go and get ready for the par­ty…”

She left. At once Laven­der and Par­vati put their heads to­geth­er to dis­cuss this new de­vel­op­ment, with ev­ery­thing they had ev­er heard about McLaggen, and all they had ev­er guessed about Hermione. Ron looked strange­ly blank and said noth­ing. Har­ry was left to pon­der in si­lence the depths to which girls would sink to get re­venge.

When he ar­rived in the en­trance hall at eight o’clock that night, he found an un­usu­al­ly large num­ber of girls lurk­ing there, all of whom seemed to be star­ing at him re­sent­ful­ly as he ap­proached Lu­na. She was wear­ing a set of span­gled sil­ver robes that were at­tract­ing a cer­tain amount of gig­gles from the on­look­ers, but oth­er­wise she looked quite nice. Har­ry was glad, in any case, that she had left off her radish ear­rings, her but­ter­beer cork neck­lace, and her Spec­tre­specs.

“Hi,” he said. “Shall we get go­ing then?”

“Oh yes,” she said hap­pi­ly. “Where is the par­ty?”

“Slughorn’s of­fice,” said Har­ry, lead­ing her up the mar­ble stair­case away from all the star­ing and mut­ter­ing. “Did you hear, there’s sup­posed to be a vam­pire com­ing?”

“Ru­fus Scrim­geour?” asked Lu­na.

“I - what?” said Har­ry, dis­con­cert­ed. “You mean the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic?”

“Yes, he’s a vam­pire,” said Lu­na mat­terof­fact­ly. “Fa­ther wrote a very long ar­ti­cle about it when Scrim­geour first took over from Cor­nelius Fudge, but he was forced not to pub­lish by some­body from the Min­istry. Ob­vi­ous­ly, they didn’t want the truth to get out!”

Har­ry, who thought it most un­like­ly that Ru­fus Scrim­geour was a vam­pire, but who was used to Lu­na re­peat­ing her fa­ther’s bizarre views as though they were fact, did not re­ply; they were al­ready ap­proach­ing Slughorn’s of­fice and the sounds of laugh­ter, mu­sic, and loud con­ver­sa­tion were grow­ing loud­er with ev­ery step they took.

Whether it had been built that way, or be­cause he had used mag­ical trick­ery to make it so, Slughorn’s of­fice was much larg­er than the usu­al teach­er’s study. The ceil­ing and walls had been draped with emer­ald, crim­son , and gold hang­in­gs, so that it looked as though they were all in­side a vast tent. The room was crowd­ed and stuffy and bathed in the red light cast by an or­nate gold­en lamp dan­gling from the cen­ter of the ceil­ing in which re­al fairies were flut­ter­ing, each a bril­liant speck of light. Loud singing ac­com­pa­nied by what sound­ed like man­dolins is­sued from a dis­tant cor­ner; a haze of pipe smoke hung over sev­er­al el­der­ly war­locks deep in con­ver­sa­tion, and a num­ber of house­elves were ne­go­ti­at­ing their way squeak­ily through the for­est of knees, ob­scured by the heavy sil­ver plat­ters of food they were bear­ing, so that they looked like lit­tle rov­ing ta­bles.

“Har­ry, m’boy!” boomed Slughorn, al­most as soon as Har­ry and Lu­na had squeezed in through the door. “Come in, come in, so many peo­ple I’d like you to meet!”

Slughorn was wear­ing a tas­seled vel­vet hat to match his smok­ing jack­et. Grip­ping Har­ry’s arm so tight­ly he might have been hop­ing to Dis­ap­pa­rate with him, Slughorn led him pur­pose­ful­ly in­to the par­ty; Har­ry seized Lu­na’s hand and dragged her along with him.

“Har­ry, I’d like you to meet El­dred Wor­ple, an old stu­dent of mine, au­thor of ‘ Blood Broth­ers: My L ife Amongst the Vam­pires’ - and, of course, his friend San­gui­ni.”

Wor­ple, who was a small, stout, be­spec­ta­cled man, grabbed Har­ry’s hand and shook it en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly; the vam­pire San­gui­ni, who was tall and ema­ci­at­ed with dark shad­ows un­der his eyes, mere­ly nod­ded. He looked rather bored. A gag­gle of girls was stand­ing close to him, look­ing cu­ri­ous and ex­cit­ed.

“Har­ry Pot­ter, I am sim­ply de­light­ed!” said Wor­ple, peer­ing short­sight­ed­ly up in­to Har­ry’s face. “I was say­ing to Pro­fes­sor Slughorn on­ly the oth­er day, ‘Where is the bi­og­ra­phy of Har­ry Pot­ter for which we have all been wait­ing?’”

“Er,” said Har­ry, “were you?”

“Just as mod­est as Ho­race de­scribed!” said Wor­ple. “But seri­ous­ly” — his man­ner changed; it be­came sud­den­ly busi­nesslike — “I would be de­light­ed to write it my­self— peo­ple are crav­ing to know more about you, dear boy, crav­ing! If you were pre­pared to grant me a few in­ter­views, say in four- or five­hour ses­sions, why, we could have the book fin­ished with­in months. And all with very lit­tle ef­fort on your part, I as­sure you — ask San­gui­ni here if it isn’t quite — San­gui­ni, stay here!” added Wor­ple, sud­den­ly stern, for the vam­pire had been edg­ing to­ward the near­by group of girls, a rather hun­gry look in his eye. “Here, have a pasty,” said Wor­ple, seiz­ing one from a pass­ing elf and stuff­ing it in­to San­gui­ni’s hand be­fore turn­ing his at­ten­tion back to Har­ry. “My dear boy, the gold you could make, you have no idea —”

“I’m def­inite­ly not in­ter­est­ed,” said Har­ry firm­ly, “and I’ve just seen a friend of mine, sor­ry.” He pulled Lu­na af­ter him in­to the crowd; he had in­deed just seen a long mane of brown hair dis­ap­pear be­tween what looked like two mem­bers of the Weird Sis­ters.

“Hermione! Hermione !”

“Har­ry! There you are, thank good­ness! Hi, Lu­na !”

“What’s hap­pened to you?” asked Har­ry, for Hermione looked dis­tinct­ly di­sheveled, rather as though she had just fought her way out of a thick­et of Dev­il’s Snare.

“Oh, I’ve just es­caped — I mean, I’ve just left Cor­mac,” she said. “Un­der the mis­tle­toe,” she added in ex­pla­na­tion, as Har­ry con­tin­ued to look ques­tion­ing­ly at her.

“Serves you right for com­ing with him,” he told her se­vere­ly. “I thought he’d an­noy Ron most,” said Hermione dis­pas­sion­ate­ly. “I de­bat­ed for a while about Zacharias Smith, but I thought, on the whole —”

“You con­sid­ered Smith?” said Har­ry, re­voked.

“Yes, I did, and I’m start­ing to wish I’d cho­sen him, McLaggen makes Grawp look a gen­tle­man. Let’s go this way, we’ll be able to see him com­ing, he’s so tall. . . .” The three of them made their way over to the oth­er side of the room, scoop­ing up gob­lets of mead on the way, re­al­iz­ing too late that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was stand­ing there alone.

“Hel­lo,” said Lu­na po­lite­ly to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

“Good evening, my dear,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, fo­cus­ing up­on Lu­na with some dif­fi­cul­ty. Har­ry could smell cook­ing sher­ry again. “I haven’t seen you in my class­es late­ly. ..”

“No, I’ve got Firen­ze this year,” said Lu­na.

“Oh, of course,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney with an an­gry, drunk­en tit­ter. “Or Dob­bin, as I pre­fer to think of him. You would have thought, would you not, that now I am re­turned to the school Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore might have got rid of the horse? But no … we share class­es. . . . It’s an in­sult, frankly, an in­sult. Do you know. . .” Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed too tip­sy to have rec­og­nized Har­ry.

Un­der cov­er of her fu­ri­ous crit­icisms of Firen­ze, Har­ry drew clos­er to Hermione and said, “Let ‘ s get some­thing straight. Are you plan­ning to tell Ron that you in­ter­fered at Keep­er try­outs?”

Hermione raised her eye­brows. “Do you re­al­ly think I’d stoop that low?”

Har­ry looked at her shrewd­ly. “Hermione, if you can ask 0111 McLaggen —”

“There’s a dif­fer­ence,” said Hermione with dig­ni­ty. “I’ve got no plans to tell Ron any­thing about what might, or might not, have hap­pened at Keep­er try­outs.”

“Good,” said Har­ry fer­vent­ly. “Be­cause he’ll just fall apart again, and we’ll lose the next match —”

“Quid­ditch!” said Hermione an­gri­ly. “Is that all boys care about? Cor­mac hasn’t asked me one sin­gle ques­tion about my­self, no, I’ve just been treat­ed to ‘A Hun­dred Great Saves Made by Cor­mac McLaggen’ non­stop ev­er since — oh no, here he comes!” She moved so fast it was as though she had Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed; one mo­ment she was there, the next, she had squeezed be­tween two guf­faw­ing witch­es and van­ished.

“Seen Hermione?” asked McLaggen, forc­ing his way through the throng a minute lat­er.

“No, sor­ry,” said Har­ry, and he turned quick­ly to join in Lu­na’s con­ver­sa­tion, for­get­ting for a split sec­ond to whom she was talk­ing.

“Har­ry Pot­ter!” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney in deep, vi­brant tones, not­ic­ing him for the first time.

“Oh, hel­lo,” said Har­ry un­en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

“My dear boy!” she said in a very car­ry­ing whis­per. “The ru­mors! The sto­ries! ‘The Cho­sen One’! Of course, I have known for a very long time. . . . The omens were nev­er good, Har­ry. . . But why have you not re­turned to Div­ina­tion? For you, of all peo­ple, the sub­ject is of the ut­most im­por­tance!”

“Ah, Sybi l l, we all think our sub­ject’s most im­por­tant!” said a loud voice, and Slughorn ap­peared at Pro­fes­sor Trelawney s oth­er side, his face very red, his vel­vet hat a lit­tle askew, a glass of mead in one hand and an enor­mous mince pie in the oth­er. “But I don’t t hink I’ve ev­er known such a nat­ural at Po­tions!” said Slughorn, re­gard­ing Har­ry with a fond, if blood­shot, eye. “In­stinc­tive, you know — like his moth­er! I’ve on­ly ev­er taught a few with this kind of abil­ity, I can tell you that, Sybi l l — why even Severus —” And to Har­ry’s hor­ror, Slughorn threw out an arm and seemed to scoop Snape out of thin air to­ward them. “Stop skulk­ing and come and join us, Severus!” hic­cuped Slughorn hap­pi­ly. “I was just talk­ing about Har­ry’s ex­cep­tion­al po­tion­mak­ing! Some cred­it must go to you, of course, you taught him for five years!”

Trapped, with Slughorns arm around his shoul­ders, Snape looked down his hooked nose at Har­ry, his black eyes nar­rowed. “Fun­ny, I nev­er had the im­pres­sion that I man­aged to teach Pot­ter any­thing at all.”

“Well, then, it’s nat­ural abil­ity!” shout­ed Slughorn. “You should have seen what he gave me, first les­son, Draught of Liv­ing Death — nev­er had a stu­dent pro­duce fin­er on a first at­tempt, I don’t think even you, Severus —”

“Re­al­ly?” said Snape qui­et­ly, his eyes still bor­ing in­to Har­ry, who felt a cer­tain dis­qui­et. The last thing he want­ed was for Snape to start in­ves­ti­gat­ing the source of his new­found bril­liance at Po­tions.

“Re­mind me what oth­er sub­jects you’re tak­ing, Har­ry?” asked Slughorn .

“De­fense Against the D ark Arts, Charms, Trans­fig­ura­tion , Her­bol­ogy…”

“All the sub­jects re­quired, in short, for an Au­ror ,” said Snap e with the faintest sneer.

“Yeah, well, that’s what I’d like to do,” said Har­ry de­fi­ant­ly.

“And a great one you’ll make too!” boomed Slughorn.

“I don’t think you should be an Au­ror, Har­ry,” said Lu­na un­ex pect­ed­ly. Ev­ery­body looked at her. “The Au­rors are part of the Rot­fang Con­spir­acy, I thought ev­ery­one knew that. They’re plan­ning to bring down the Min­istry of Mag­ic from with­in us­ing a c om bi­na­tion of Dark Mag­ic and gum dis­ease.”

Har­ry in­haled half his mead up his nose as he start­ed to lau gh. Re­al­ly, it had been worth bring­ing Lu­na just for this. Emerg­ing, from his gob­let, cough­ing, sop­ping wet but still grin­ning, he saw some­thing cal­cu­lat­ed to raise his spir­its even high­er: Dra­co Malf o y be­ing dragged by the ear to­ward them by Ar­gus Filch.

“Pro­fes­sor Slughorn,” wheezed Filch, his jowls aquiver and the ma­ni­acal light of mis­chiefde­tec­tion in his bulging eyes, “I dis­cov­ered this boy lurk­ing in an up­stairs cor­ri­dor. He claims to have been in­vit­ed to your par­ty and to have been de­layed in set­ting out. Did you is­sue him with an in­vi­ta­tion?”

Mal­foy pulled him­self free of Filchs grip, look­ing fu­ri­ous. “All right, I wasn’t in­vit­ed!” he said an­gri­ly. “I was try­ing to gate crash, hap­py?”

“No, I’m not!” said Filch, a state­ment at com­plete odds with the glee on his face. “You’re in trou­ble, you are! Didn’t the head­ma ster say that night­time prowl­ing ‘ s out, un­less you’ve got per­mis­sion, didn’t he, eh?”

“That’s all right, Ar­gus, that’s all right,” said Slughorn, wav­ing it 1.1 nd. “It’s Christ­mas, and it’s not a crime to want to come to a par­ty . Just this once, we’ll for­get any pun­ish­ment; you may stay , Dra­co.

Fil ich’s ex­pres­sion of out­raged dis­ap­point­ment was per­fect­ly pre di c t able; but why, Har­ry won­dered, watch­ing him, did Mal­foy look al­most equal­ly un­hap­py? And why was Snape look­ing at Mal­foy as though both an­gry and . . . was it p os­si­ble? … a lit tl afraid? But al­most be­fore Har­ry had reg­is­tered what he had seen, Filch had turned and shuf­fled away, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath; Mal­foy h ad com­posed his face in­to a smile and was thank­ing Slughorn for his gen­eros­ity, and Snape’s face was smooth­ly in­scrutable again.

“It’s noth­ing, noth­ing,” said Slughorn, wav­ing away Mal­foy’s t han­ks. “I did know your grand­fa­ther, af­ter all….”

“He al­ways spoke very high­ly of you, sir,” said Mal­foy quick­ly. “Said you were the best po­tion­mak­er he’d ev­er known. …”

Har­ry stared at Mal­foy. It was not the suck­in­gup that in­trigued him; he had watched Mal­foy do that to Snape for a long time. It was the fact that Mal­foy did, af­ter all, look a lit­tle ill. This was the first time he had seen Mal­foy close up for ages; he now saw that Mal­foy had dark shad­ows un­der his eyes and a dis­tinct­ly gray­ish tinge to his skin.

“I’d like a word with you, Dra­co,” said Snape sud­den­ly.

“Now , Severus,” said Slughorn, hic­cup­ing again, “it’s Christ mas, do n’t be too hard —”

“I am his Head of House, and I shall de­cide how hard, or oth­er­wise, to be,” said Snape curt­ly. “Fol­low me, Dra­co.”

They left, Snape lead­ing the way, Mal­foy look­ing re­sent­ful. Har­ry stood there for a mo­ment, ir­res­olute, then said, “I’ll be back in a bit, Lu­na — er — bath­room.”

“All right,” she said cheer­ful­ly, and he thought he heard her, as he hur­ried off in­to the crowd, re­sume the sub­ject of the Rot­fang Con­spir­acy with Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who seemed sin­cere­ly in ter­est­ed. It was easy, once out of the par­ty, to pull his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of his pock­et and throw it over him­self, for the cor­ri­dor was quite de­sert­ed. What was more dif­fi­cult was find­ing Snape and Mal­foy. Har­ry ran down the cor­ri­dor, the noise of his feet masked by the mu­sic and loud talk still is­su­ing from Slughorn’s of­fice be­hind him. Per­haps Snape had tak­en Mal­foy to his of­fice in the dun­geons … or per­haps he was es­cort­ing him back to the Slyt herin com­mon room. . . . Har­ry pressed his ear against door af­ter door as he dashed down the cor­ri­dor un­til, with a great jolt of ex­cite­ment, he crouched down to the key­hole of the last class­room in the cor­ri­dor and heard voic­es.

” . . . can­not af­ford mis­takes, Dra­co, be­cause if you are ex­pelled —”

“I didn’t have any­thing to do with it, all right?”

“I hope you are telling the truth, be­cause it was both clum­sy a nd fool­ish. Al­ready you are sus­pect­ed of hav­ing a hand in it.”

“Who sus­pects me?” said Mal­foy an­gri­ly. “For the last time, I didn’t do it, okay? That Bell girl must ‘ ve had an en­emy no on e knows about — don’t look at me like that! I know what you’re do­ing, I’m not stupid, but it won’t work — I can stop you!”

There was a pause and then Snape said qui­et­ly, “Ah . . . Aunt Bel­la­trix has been teach­ing you Oc­clu­men­cy, I see. What thoughts are you try­ing to con­ceal from your mas­ter, Dra­co?”

“I’m not try­ing to con­ceal any­thing from him, I just don’t want you butting in !” Har­ry pressed his ear still more close­ly against the key­hole. . . . What had hap­pened to make Mal­foy speak to Snape like this — Snape, to­ward whom he had al­ways shown re­spect, even lik­ing?

“So that is why you have been avoid­ing me this term? You have feared my in­ter­fer­ence? You re­al­ize that, had any­body else failed to come to my of­fice when I had told them re­peat­ed­ly to be there, Dra­co —”

“So put me in de­ten­tion! Re­port me to Dum­ble­dore!” jeered Mal­foy.

There was an­oth­er pause. Then Snape said, “You know per­fect­ly well that I do not wish to do ei­ther of those things .”

“You’d bet­ter stop telling me to come to your of­fice then!”

“Lis­ten to me,” said Snape, his voice so low now that Har­ry had to push his ear very hard against the key­hole to hear. “I am try­ing to help you. I swore to your moth­er I would pro­tect you. I made the Un­break­able Vow, Dra­co —”

“Looks like you’ll have to break it, then, be­cause I don’t need your pro­tec­tion! It’s my job, he gave it to me and I’m do­ing it, I’ve got a plan and it’s go­ing to work, it’s just tak­ing a bit longer than I thought it would!”

“What is your plan ?”

“It’s none of your busi­ness !”

” If you tell me what you are try­ing to do, I can as­sist you …”

“I have all the as­sis­tance I need, thanks, I’m not alone!”

“You were cer­tain­ly alone tonight, which was fool­ish in the ex­treme, wan­der­ing the cor­ri­dors with­out look­outs or back­up, these are el­emen­tary mis­takes —”

“I would’ve had Crabbe and Goyle with me if you hadn’t put them in de­ten­tion!”

“Keep your voice down!” spat Snape, for Mal­foy ‘ s voice had risen ex­cit­ed­ly. “If your friends Crabbe and Goyle in­tend to pass their De­fense Against the Dark Arts OWL this time around, they will need to work a lit­tle hard­er than they are do­ing at pres —”

“What does it mat­ter?” said Mal­foy. “De­fense Against the Dark Arts — its all just a joke, isn’t it, an act? Like any of us need pro­tect­ing against the Dark Arts —”

“It is an act that is cru­cial to suc­cess, Dra­co!” said Snape. “Where do you think I would have been all these years, if I had not known how to act? Now lis­ten to me! You are be­ing in­cau­tious, wan­der­ing around at night, get­ting your­self caught, and if you are plac­ing your re­liance in as­sis­tants like Crabbe and Goyle —”

“They’re not the on­ly ones, I’ve got oth­er peo­ple on my side, bet­ter peo­ple!”

“Then why not con­fide in me, and I can —”

“I know what you’re up to! You want to steal my glo­ry!”

There was an­oth­er pause, then Snape said cold­ly, “You are speak­ing like a child. I quite un­der­stand that your fa­thers cap­ture and im­pris­on­ment has up­set you, but —”

Har­ry had bare­ly a sec­ond ‘ s warn­ing; he heard Mal­foy’s foot­steps on the oth­er side of the door and flung him­self out of the way just as it burst open . Mal­foy was strid­ing away down the cor­ri­dor, past the open door of Slughorns of­fice, around the dis­tant cor­ner, and out of sight. Hard­ly dar­ing to breathe, Har­ry re­mained crouched down as Snape emerged slow­ly from the class­room. His ex­pres­sion un­fath­omable, he re­turned to the par­ty. Har­ry re­mained on the floor, hid­den be­neath the cloak, his mind rac­ing.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 16: AVeryFrosty Christmas


“So Snape was of­fer­ing to help him? He was def­inite­ly of­fer­ing to help him?”

“If you ask. that once more,” said Har­ry, “I’m go­ing to stick this sprout —”

“I’m on­ly check­ing!” said Ron. They were stand­ing alone at the Bur­row’s kitchen sink, peel­ing a moun­tain of sprouts for Mrs. Weasley. Snow was drift­ing past the win­dow in front of them.

“Yes, Snape was of­fer­ing to help him!” said Har­ry. “He said he’d promised Mal­foy’s moth­er to pro­tect him, that he’d made an Un­break­able Oath or some­thing —”

“An Un­break­able Vow?” said Ron, look­ing stunned. “Nah, he can’t have. . . . Are you sure?”

“Yes, I’m sure,” said Har­ry. “Why, what does it mean?”

“Well, you can’t break an Un­break­able Vow. . . .”

“I’d worked that much out for my­self, fun­ni­ly enough. What hap­pens if you break it, then?”

“You die,” said Ron sim­ply. “Fred and George tried to get me to make one when I was about five. I near­ly did too, I was hold­ing hands with Fred and ev­ery­thing when Dad found us. He went men­tal,” said Ron, with a rem­inis­cent gleam in his eyes. “On­ly time I’ve ev­er seen Dad as an­gry as Mum, Fred reck­ons his left but­tock has nev­er been the same since.”

“Yeah, well, pass­ing over Fred’s left but­tock —”

“I beg your par­don?” said Fred’s voice as the twins en­tered the kitchen.

“Aaah, George, look at this. They’re us­ing knives and ev­ery­thing. Bless them.”

“I’ll be sev­en­teen in two and a bit months’ time,” said Ron grumpi­ly, “and then I’ll be able to do it by mag­ic!”

“But mean­while,” said George, sit­ting down at the kitchen ta­ble and putting his feet up on it, “we can en­joy watch­ing you de­mon­strate the cor­rect use of a — whoop­sadaisy!”

“You made me do that!” said Ron an­gri­ly, suck­ing his cut thumb. “You wait, when I’m sev­en­teen —”

“I’m sure you’ll daz­zle us all with hith­er­to un­sus­pect­ed mag­ical skills,” yawned Fred.

“And speak­ing of hith­er­to un­sus­pect­ed skills, Ronald,” said George, “what is this we hear from Gin­ny about you and a young la­dy called — un­less our in­for­ma­tion is faulty — Laven­der Brown?”

Ron turned a lit­tle pink, but did not look dis­pleased as he turned back to the sprouts. “Mind your own busi­ness.”

“What a snap­py re­tort,” said Fred. “I re­al­ly don’t know how you think of them. No, what we want­ed to know was… how did it hap­pen?”

“What d’you mean?”

“Did she have an ac­ci­dent or some­thing?”

“What?” ..¦;

“Well, how did she sus­tain such ex­ten­sive brain dam­age? Care­ful, now!”

Mrs. Weasley en­tered the room just in time to see Ron throw the sprout knife at Fred, who had turned it in­to a pa­per air­plane with one lazy flick of his wand,

“Ron!” she said fu­ri­ous­ly. “Don’t you ev­er let me see you throw­ing knives again!”

“I wont,” said Ron, “let you see,” he added un­der his breath, as he turned back to the sprout moun­tain.

“Fred, George, I’m sor­ry, dears, but Re­mus is ar­riv­ing tonight, so Bill will have to squeeze in with you two.” ;

“No prob­lem,” said George.

- “Then, as Char­lie isn’t com­ing home, that just leaves Har­ry and ;¦/ Ron in the at­tic, and if Fleur shares with Gin­ny —” “— that’ll make Gin­ny’s Christ­mas —” mut­tered Fred. “— ev­ery­one should be com­fort­able. Well, they’ll have a bed, any­way,” said Mrs. Weasley, sound­ing slight­ly ha­rassed.

“Per­cy def­inite­ly not show­ing his ug­ly face, then?” asked Fred. Mrs. Weasley turned away be­fore she an­swered. “No, he’s busy, I ex­pect, at the Min­istry.”

“Or he’s the world’s biggest prat,” said Fred, as Mrs. Weasley left the kitchen. “One of the two. “Well, let’s get go­ing, then, George.”

“What are you two up to?” asked Ron. “Cant you help us with these sprouts? You could just use your wand and then we’ll be free

too!”

“No, I don’t think we can do that,” said Fred se­ri­ous­ly. “It’s very char­ac­ter­build­ing stuff, learn­ing to peel sprouts with­out mag­ic, makes you ap­pre­ci­ate how dif­fi­cult it is for Mug­gles and Squibs —” “— and if you want peo­ple to help you, Ron,” added George, throw­ing the pa­per air­plane at him, “I wouldn’t chuck knives at them. Just a lit­tle hint. We’re off to the vil­lage, there’s a very pret­ty girl work­ing in the pa­per shop who thinks my card tricks are some­thing mar­velous . . , al­most like re­al mag­ic. …”

“Gits,” said Ron dark­ly, watch­ing Fred and George set­ting off across the snowy yard. “Would’ve on­ly tak­en them ten sec­onds and then we could’ve gone too.”

“I couldn’t,” said Har­ry. “I promised Dum­ble­dore I wouldn’t wan­der off while I’m stay­ing here.”

“Oh yeah,” said Ron. He peeled a few more sprouts and then said, “Are you go­ing to tell Dum­ble­dore what you heard Snape and Mal­foy say­ing to each oth­er?”

“Yep,” said Har­ry. “I’m go­ing to tell any­one who can put a stop to it, and Dum­ble­dore’s top of the list. I might have an­oth­er word with your dad too.”

“Pity you didn’t hear what Mal­foy’s ac­tu­al­ly do­ing, though.” “I couldn’t have done, could I? That was the whole point, he was re­fus­ing to tell Snape.”

There was si­lence for a mo­ment or two, then Ron said, ” ‘Course, you know what they’ll all say? Dad and Dum­ble­dore and all of them? They’ll say Snape isn’t re­al­ly try­ing to help Mal­foy, he was just try­ing to find out what Mal­foy’s up to.”

“They didn’t hear him,” said Har­ry flat­ly. “No one’s that good an ac­tor, not even Snape.”

“Yeah . . . I’m just say­ing, though/’ said Ron.

Har­ry turned to face him, frown­ing. “You think I’m right, though?” ,

“Yeah, I do!” said Ron hasti­ly. “Se­ri­ous­ly, I do! But they’re all con­vinced Snape’s in the Or­der, aren’t they?”

Har­ry said noth­ing. It had al­ready oc­curred to him that this would be the most like­ly ob­jec­tion to his new ev­idence; he could hear Hermione now: Ob­vi­ous­ly, Har­ry, he was pre­tend­ing to of­fer help so he could trick Mal­foy in­to telling him what he’s do­ing. . . .

This was pure imag­ina­tion, how­ev­er, as he had had no op­por­tu­ni­ty to tell Hermione what he had over­heard. She had dis­ap­peared from Slughorn’s par­ty be­fore he re­turned to it, or so he had been in­formed by an irate McLaggen, and she had al­ready gone to bed by the time he re­turned to the com­mon room. As he and Ron had left for the Bur­row ear­ly the next day, he had bare­ly had time to wish her a hap­py Christ­mas and to tell her that he had some very im­por­tant news when they got back from the hol­idays. He was not en­tire­ly sure that she had heard him, though; Ron and Laven­der had been say­ing a thor­ough­ly non­ver­bal good­bye just be­hind him at the time.

Still, even Hermione would not be able to de­ny one thing: Mal­foy was def­inite­ly up to some­thing, and Snape knew it, so Har­ry felt ful­ly jus­ti­fied in say­ing “I told you so,” which he had done sev­er­al times to Ron al­ready.

Har­ry did not get the chance to speak to Mr. Weasley, who was work­ing very long hours at the Min­istry, un­til Christ­mas Eve night. The Weasleys and their guests were sit­ting in the liv­ing room, which Gin­ny had dec­orat­ed so lav­ish­ly that it was rather like sit­ting in a pa­per­chain ex­plo­sion. Fred, George, Har­ry, and Ron were the on­ly ones who knew that the an­gel on top of the tree was ac­tu­al­ly a gar­den gnome that had bit­ten Fred on the an­kle as hr pulled up car­rots for Christ­mas din­ner. Stu­pe­fied, paint­ed gold, stuffed in­to a minia­ture tu­tu and with small wings glued to il.s back, it glow­ered down at them all, the ugli­est an­gel Har­ry had ev­er seen, with a large bald head like a pota­to and rather hairy feet.

They were all sup­posed to be lis­ten­ing to a Christ­mas broad­cast by Mrs. Weasleys fa­vorite singer, Ce­lesti­na War­beck, whose voice was war­bling out of the large wood­en wire­less set. Fleur, who seemed to find Ce­lesti­na very dull, was talk­ing so loud­ly in the cor­ner that a scowl­ing Mrs. Weasley kept point­ing her wand at the vol­ume con­trol, so that Ce­lesti­na grew loud­er and loud­er. Un­der cov­er of a par­tic­ular­ly jazzy num­ber called “A Caul­dron Full of Hot, Strong Love,” Fred and George start­ed a game of Ex­plod­ing Snap with Gin­ny. Ron kept shoot­ing Bill and Fleur covert looks, as though hop­ing to pick up tips. Mean­while, Re­mus Lupin, who was thin­ner and more ragged­look­ing than ev­er, was sit­ting be­side the fire, star­ing in­to its depths as though he could not hear Ce­lesti­nas voice.

Oh, come and stir my caul­dron,

And if you do it right,

I’ll boil you up some hot strong love

To keep you warm tonight.

“We danced to this when we were eigh­teen!” said Mrs. Weasley, wip­ing her eyes on her knit­ting. “Do you re­mem­ber, Arthur?”

“Mphf?” said Mr. Weasley, whose head had been nod­ding over the sat­suma he was peel­ing. “Oh yes … mar­velous tune . . .”

With an ef­fort, he sat up a lit­tle straighter and looked around at Har­ry, who was sit­ting next to him.

“Sor­ry about this,” he said, jerk­ing his head to­ward the wire­less as Ce­lesti­na broke in­to the cho­rus. “Be over soon.”

“No prob­lem,” said Har­ry, grin­ning. “Has it been busy at the Min­istry?”

“Very,” said Mr. Weasley. “I wouldn’t mind if we were get­ting any­where, but of the three ar­rests we’ve made in the last cou­ple of months, I doubt that one of them is a gen­uine Death Eater — on­ly don’t re­peat that, Har­ry,” he added quick­ly, look­ing much more awake all of a sud­den.

“They’re not still hold­ing Stan Shun­pike, are they?” asked Har­ry.

“I’m afraid so,” said Mr. Weasley. “I know Dum­ble­dore’s tried ap­peal­ing di­rect­ly to Scrim­geour about Stan. … I mean, any­body who has ac­tu­al­ly in­ter­viewed him agrees that he’s about as much a Death Eater as this sat­suma . . . but the top lev­els want to look as though they’re mak­ing some progress, and ‘three ar­rests’ sounds bet­ter than ‘three mis­tak­en ar­rests and re­leas­es’. . . but again, this is

all top se­cret. . . .”

“I won’t say any­thing,” said Har­ry. He hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, won­der­ing how best to em­bark on what he want­ed to say; as he mar­shaled his thoughts, Ce­lesti­na War­beck be­gan a bal­lad called “You Charmed the Heart Right Out of Me.”

“Mr. Weasley, you know what I told you at the sta­tion when we were set­ting off for school?”

“I checked, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley at once. “I went and searched the Mal­foys’ house. There was noth­ing, ei­ther bro­ken or whole, that shouldn’t have been there.”

“Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that you’d looked . . . but this is some­thing dif­fer­ent. . . . Well, some­thing more …”

And he told Mr. Weasley ev­ery­thing he had over­heard be­tween

Mal­foy and Snape, As Har­ry spoke, he saw Lupin’s head turn a lit­tle to­ward him, tak­ing in ev­ery word. When he had fin­ished, there was si­lence, ex­cept for Ce­lesti­na’s croon­ing.

Oh, my poor heart, where has it gone? It’s left me for a spell…

“Has it oc­curred to you, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley, “that Snape was sim­ply pre­tend­ing — ?”

“Pre­tend­ing to of­fer help, so that he could find out what Mal­foy’s up to?” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Yeah, I thought you’d say that. But how do we know?”

“It isn’t our busi­ness to know,” said Lupin un­ex­pect­ed­ly. He had turned his back on the fire now and faced Har­ry across Mr. Weasley. “It’s Dum­ble­dore’s busi­ness. Dum­ble­dore trusts Severus, and that ought to be good enough for all of us.”

“But,” said Har­ry, “just say — just say Dum­ble­dores wrong about Snape —”

“Peo­ple have said it, many times. It comes down to whether or not you trust Dum­ble­dore’s judg­ment. I do; there­fore, I trust Severus.”

“But Dum­ble­dore can make mis­takes,” ar­gued Har­ry. “He says it him­self. And you” — he looked Lupin straight in the eye — “do you hon­est­ly like Snape?”

“I nei­ther like nor dis­like Severus,” said Lupin. “No, Har­ry, I am speak­ing the truth,” he added, as Har­ry pulled a skep­ti­cal ex­pres­sion. “We shall nev­er be bo­som friends, per­haps; af­ter all that hap­pened be­tween James and Sir­ius and Severus, there is too much bit­ter­ness there. But I do not for­get that dur­ing the year I taught at Hog­warts, Severus made the Wolfs­bane Po­tion for me ev­ery month, made it per­fect­ly, so that I did not have to suf­fer as I usu­al­ly do at the full moon.”

“But he ‘ac­ci­den­tal­ly’ let it slip that you’re a were­wolf, so you had to leave!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

Lupin shrugged. “The news would have leaked out any­way. We both know he want­ed my job, but he could have wreaked much worse dam­age on me by tam­per­ing with the po­tion. He kept me healthy. I must be grate­ful.”

“Maybe he didn’t dare mess with the po­tion with Dum­ble­dore watch­ing him!” said Har­ry.

“You are de­ter­mined to hate him, Har­ry,” said Lupin with a faint smile. “And I un­der­stand; with James as your fa­ther, with Sir­ius as your god­fa­ther, you have in­her­it­ed an old prej­udice. By all means tell Dum­ble­dore what you have told Arthur and me, but do not ex­pect him to share your view of the mat­ter; do not even ex­pect him to be sur­prised by what you tell him. It might have been on Dum­ble­dore’s or­ders that Severus ques­tioned Dra­co.” ;

. . . and now you’ve torn it quite apart I’ll thank you to give back my heart!

Ce­lesti­na end­ed her song on a very long, high­pitched note and loud ap­plause is­sued out of the wire­less, which Mrs. Weasley joined in with en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

“Eez eet over?” said Fleur loud­ly. “Thank good­ness, what an ‘or­ri­ble —”

“Shall we have a night­cap, then?” asked Mr. Weasley loud­ly, leap­ing to his feet. “Who wants eggnog?”

“What have you been up to late­ly?” Har­ry asked Lupin, as Mr, Weasley bus­tled off to fetch the eggnog, and ev­ery­body else stretched and broke in­to con­ver­sa­tion.

“Oh, I’ve been un­der­ground,” said Lupin. “Al­most lit­er­al­ly. That’s why I haven’t been able to write, Har­ry; send­ing let­ters to you would have been some­thing of a give­away.” -:

“What do you mean?” ‘

“I’ve been liv­ing among my fel­lows, my equals,” said Lupin. “Were­wolves,” he added, at Har­rys look of in­com­pre­hen­sion. “Near­ly all of them are on Volde­mort’s side. Dum­ble­dore want­ed a spy and here I was . . . ready­made.”

He sound­ed a lit­tle bit­ter, and per­haps re­al­ized it, for he smiled more warm­ly as he went on, “I am not com­plain­ing; it is nec­es­sary work and who can do it bet­ter than I? How­ev­er, it has been dif­fi­cult gain­ing their trust. I bear the un­mis­tak­able signs of hav­ing tried to live among wiz­ards, you see, where­as they have shunned nor­mal so­ci­ety and live on the mar­gins, steal­ing — and some­times killing — to eat.”

“How come they like Volde­mort?”

“They think that, un­der his rule, they will have a bet­ter life,” said Lupin. “And it is hard to ar­gue with Grey­back out there. . . .”

“Who’s Grey­back?”

“You haven’t heard of him?” Lupin’s hands closed con­vul­sive­ly in his lap. “Fen­rir Grey­back is, per­haps, the most sav­age were­wolf alive to­day. He re­gards it as his mis­sion in life to bite and to con­ta­mi­nate as many peo­ple as pos­si­ble; he wants to cre­ate enough were­wolves to over­come the wiz­ards. Volde­mort has promised him prey in re­turn for his ser­vices. Grey­back spe­cial­izes in chil­dren. . . . Bite them young, he says, and raise them away from their par­ents, raise them to hate nor­mal wiz­ards. Volde­mort has threat­ened to un­leash him up­on peo­ple’s sons and daugh­ters; it is a threat that usu­al­ly pro­duces good re­sults.”

Lupin paused and then said, “It was Grey­back who bit me.” “What?” said Har­ry, as­ton­ished. “When — when you were a kid, you mean?”

“Yes. My fa­ther had of­fend­ed him. I did not know, for a very long time, the iden­ti­ty of the were­wolf who had at­tacked me; I even felt pity for him, think­ing that he had had no con­trol, know­ing by then how it felt to trans­form. But Grey­back is not like that. At the full moon, he po­si­tions him­self close to vic­tims, en­sur­ing that he is near enough to strike. He plans it all. And this is the man Volde­mort is us­ing to mar­shal the were­wolves. I can­not pre­tend that my par­tic­ular brand of rea­soned ar­gu­ment is mak­ing much head­way against Grey­back’s in­sis­tence that we were­wolves de­serve blood, that we ought to re­venge our­selves on nor­mal peo­ple.” “But you are nor­mal!” said Har­ry fierce­ly. “You’ve just got a — a

prob­lem —”

Lupin burst out laugh­ing. “Some­times you re­mind me a lot of James. He called it my ‘fur­ry lit­tle prob­lem in com­pa­ny. Many peo­ple were un­der the im­pres­sion that I owned a bad­ly be­haved

rab­bit.”

He ac­cept­ed a glass of eggnog from Mr. Weasley with a word of thanks, look­ing slight­ly more cheer­ful, Har­ry, mean­while, felt a rush of ex­cite­ment: This last men­tion of his fa­ther had re­mind­ed him that there was some­thing he had been look­ing for­ward to ask­ing Lupin.

“Have you ev­er heard of some­one called the Half­Blood Prince?”

“The Half­Blood what?”

“Prince,” said Har­ry, watch­ing him close­ly for signs of recog­ni­tion.

“There are no Wiz­ard­ing princes,” said Lupin, now smil­ing. “Is this a ti­tle you re think­ing of adopt­ing? I should have thought be­ing ‘the Cho­sen One’ would be enough.”

“It’s noth­ing to do with me!” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly. “The Half­Blood Prince is some­one who used to go to Hog­warts, I’ve got his old Po­tions book. He wrote spells all over it, spells he in­vent­ed. One of them was Lev­icor­pus —”

“Oh, that one had a great vogue dur­ing my time at Hog­warts,” said Lupin rem­inis­cent­ly. “There were a few months in my fifth year when you couldn’t move for be­ing hoist­ed in­to the air by your an­kle.”

“My dad used it,” said Har­ry. “I saw him in the Pen­sieve, he used it on Snape.”

He tried to sound ca­su­al, as though this was a throw­away com­ment of no re­al im­por­tance, but he was not sure he had achieved the right ef­fect; Lupins smile was a lit­tle too un­der­stand­ing.

“Yes,” he said, “but he wasn’t the on­ly one. As I say, it was very pop­ular. . . . You know how these spells come and go. , . .”

“But it sounds like it was in­vent­ed while you were at school,” Har­ry per­sist­ed.

“Not nec­es­sar­ily,” said Lupin. “Jinx­es go in and out of fash­ion like ev­ery­thing else.”

He looked in­to Har­ry’s face and then said qui­et­ly, “James was a pure­blood, Har­ry, and I promise you, he nev­er asked us to call him ‘Prince.’”

Aban­don­ing pre­tense, Har­ry said, “And it wasn’t Sir­ius? Or you?”

“Def­inite­ly not.”

“Oh.” Har­ry stared in­to the fire. “I just thought — well, he’s helped me out a lot in Po­tions class­es, the Prince has.”

“How old is this book, Har­ry?”

“I dun­no, I’ve nev­er checked.”

“Well, per­haps that will give you some clue as to when the Prince was at Hog­warts,” said Lupin.

Short­ly af­ter this, Fleur de­cid­ed to im­itate Ce­lesti­na singing “A Caul­dron Full of Hot, Strong Love,” which was tak­en by ev­ery­one, once they had glimpsed Mrs. Weasley’s ex­pres­sion, to be the cue to go to bed. Har­ry and Ron climbed all the way up to Ron’s at­tic bed­room, where a camp bed had been added for Har­ry.

Ron fell asleep al­most im­me­di­ate­ly, but Har­ry delved in­to his trunk and pulled out his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing be­fore get­ting in­to bed. There he turned its pages, search­ing, un­til he fi­nal­ly found, at the front of the book, the date that it had been pub­lished. It was near­ly fifty years old. Nei­ther his fa­ther, nor his fa­ther’s friends, had been at Hog­warts fifty years ago. Feel­ing dis­ap­point­ed, Har­ry threw the book back in­to his trunk, turned off the lamp, and rolled over, think­ing of were­wolves and Snape, Stan Shun­pike and the Half­Blood Prince, and fi­nal­ly falling in­to an un­easy sleep full of creep­ing shad­ows and the cries of bit­ten chil­dren. . . .

“She’s got to be jok­ing. . . .”

Har­ry woke with a start to find a bulging stock­ing ly­ing over the end of his bed. He put on his glass­es and looked around; the tiny win­dow was al­most com­plete­ly ob­scured with snow and, in front of it, Ron was sit­ting bolt up­right in bed and ex­am­in­ing what ap­peared to be a thick gold chain.

“What’s chat?” asked Har­ry. ‘

“Its from Laven­der,” said Ron, sound­ing re­volt­ed^ “She earn

hon­est­ly think I’d wear …”

Har­ry looked more close­ly and let out a shout of laugh­ter, Dan

gling from the chain in large gold let­ters were the words:

“My sweet­heart”

“Nice,” he said. “Classy. You should def­inite­ly wear it in front ol Fred and George.”

“If you tell them,” said Ron, shov­ing the neck­lace out of sight un­der his pil­low, “I — I — I’ll —”

“Stut­ter at me?” said Har­ry, grin­ning. “Come on, would I?”

“How could she think I’d like some­thing like that, though?” Ron de­mand­ed of thin air, look­ing rather shocked.

“Well, think back,” said Har­ry. “Have you ev­er let it slip that you’d like to go out in pub­lic with the words ‘My Sweet­heart’ round your neck?”

“Well… we don’t re­al­ly talk much,” said Ron. “It’s main­ly . . .”

“Snog­ging,” said Har­ry.

“Well, yeah,” said Ron. He hes­itat­ed a mo­ment, then said, “Is Hermione re­al­ly go­ing out with McLaggen?”

“I dun­no,” said Har­ry. “They were at Slughorn’s par­ty to­geth­er, but I don’t think it went that well.”

Ron looked slight­ly more cheer­ful as he delved deep­er in­to his stock­ing.

Har­rys presents in­clud­ed a sweater with a large Gold­en Snitch worked on­to the front, hand­knit­ted by Mrs. Weasley, a large box of Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes prod­ucts from the twins, and a slight­ly damp, moldys­melling pack­age that came with a la­bel read­ing To Mas­ter, From Kreach­er,

Har­ry stared at it. “D’you reck­on this is safe to open?” he asked. “Can’t be any­thing dan­ger­ous, all our mail’s still be­ing searched at the Min­istry,” replied Ron, though he was eye­ing the par­cel sus­pi­cious­ly.

“I didn’t think of giv­ing Kreach­er any­thing. Do peo­ple usu­al­ly give their house­elves Christ­mas presents?” asked Har­ry, prod­ding the par­cel cau­tious­ly.

“Hermione would,” said Ron. “But let’s wait and see what it is be­fore you start feel­ing guilty.”

A mo­ment lat­er, Har­ry had giv­en a loud yell and leapt out of his camp bed; the pack­age con­tained a large num­ber of mag­gots. “Nice,” said Ron, roar­ing with laugh­ter. “Very thought­ful.” “I’d rather have them than that neck­lace,” said Har­ry, which sobered Ron up at once.

Ev­ery­body was wear­ing new sweaters when they all sat down for Christ­mas lunch, ev­ery­one ex­cept Fleur (on whom, it ap­peared, Mrs. Weasley had not want­ed to waste one) and Mrs. Weasley her­self, who was sport­ing a brand­new mid­night blue witch’s hat glit­ter­ing with what looked like tiny star­like di­amonds, and a spec­tac­ular gold­en neck­lace.

“Fred and George gave them to me! Aren’t they beau­ti­ful?” .: “Well, we find we ap­pre­ci­ate you more and more, Mum, now we’re wash­ing our own socks,” said George, wav­ing an airy hand. “Parsnips, Re­mus?”

“Har­ry, you’ve got a mag­got in your hair,” said Gin­ny cheer­ful­ly, lean­ing across the ta­ble to pick it out; Har­ry felt goose bumps erupt up his neck that had noth­ing to do with the mag­got.

“‘Ow ‘or­ri­ble,” said Fleur, with an af­fect­ed lit­tle shud­der.

“Yes, isn’t it?” said Ron. “Gravy, Fleur?”

. In his ea­ger­ness to help her, he knocked the gravy boat fly­ing; Bill waved his wand and the gravy soared up in the air and re­turned meek­ly to the boat.

“You are as bad as zat Tonks,” said Fleur to Ron, when she had fin­ished kiss­ing Bill in thanks. “She is al­ways knock­ing —”

“I in­vit­ed dear Tonks to come along to­day,” said Mrs. Weasley, set­ting down the car­rots with un­nec­es­sary force and glar­ing at Fleur. “But she wouldn’t come. Have you spo­ken to her late­ly, Re­mus?”

“No, I haven’t been in con­tact with any­body very much,” said Lupin. “But Tonks has got her own fam­ily to go to, hasn’t she?”

“Hm­mm,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Maybe. I got the im­pres­sion she was plan­ning to spend Christ­mas alone, ac­tu­al­ly.”

She gave Lupin an an­noyed look, as though it was all his fault she was get­ting Fleur for a daugh­terin­law in­stead of Tonks, but Har­ry, glanc­ing across at Fleur, who was now feed­ing Bill bits of turkey off her own fork, thought that Mrs. Weasley was fight­ing a lon­glost bat­tle. He was, how­ev­er, re­mind­ed of a ques­tion he had with re­gard to Tonks, and who bet­ter to ask than Lupin, the man who knew all about Pa­tronus­es?

“Tonks’s Pa­tronus has changed its form,” he told him. “Snape said so any­way. I didn’t know that could hap­pen. Why would your Pa­tronus change?”

Lupin took his time chew­ing his turkey and sw­al­low­ing be­fore say­ing slow­ly, “Some­times … a great shock … an emo­tion­al up­heaval …”

“It looked big, and it had four legs,” said Har­ry, struck by a sud­den thought and low­er­ing his voice. “Hey … it couldn’t be — ?”

“Arthur!” said Mrs. Weasley sud­den­ly. She had risen from her chair; her hand was pressed over her heart and she was star­ing out of the kitchen win­dow. “Arthur — it’s Per­cy!”

“What?”

Mr. Weasley looked around. Ev­ery­body looked quick­ly at the win­dow; Gin­ny stood up for a bet­ter look. There, sure enough, was Per­cy Weasley, strid­ing across the snowy yard, his horn­rimmed glass­es glint­ing in the sun­light. He was not, how­ev­er, alone.

“Arthur, he’s — he’s with the Min­is­ter!”

And sure enough, the man Har­ry had seen in the Dai­ly Prophet was fol­low­ing along in Per­cy’s wake, limp­ing slight­ly, his mane of gray­ing hair and his black cloak flecked with snow. Be­fore any of , them could say any­thing, be­fore Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could do : more than ex­change stunned looks, the back door opened and there stood Per­cy.

There was a mo­ment’s painful si­lence. Then Per­cy said rather stiffly, “Mer­ry Christ­mas, Moth­er.”

“Oh, Per­cy!” said Mrs. Weasley, and she threw her­self in­to his arms.

Ru­fus Scrim­geour paused in the door­way, lean­ing on his walk­ing stick and smil­ing as he ob­served this af­fect­ing scene.

“You must for­give this in­tru­sion,” he said, when Mrs. Weasley looked around at him, beam­ing and wip­ing her eyes. “Per­cy and I were in the vicin­ity — work­ing, you know — and he couldn’t re­sist drop­ping in and see­ing you all.”

But Per­cy showed no sign of want­ing to greet any of the rest of the fam­ily. He stood, pok­er­straight and awk­ward­look­ing, and stared over ev­ery­body else’s heads. Mr. Weasley, Fred, and George were all ob­serv­ing him, stony­faced.

“Please, come in, sit down, Min­is­ter!” flut­tered Mrs. Weasley, straight­en­ing her hat. Have a lit­tle purkey, or some tood­ing. … 1 ‘. mean —”

“No, no, my dear Mol­ly,” said Scrim­geour. Har­ry guessed that he had checked her name with Per­cy be­fore they en­tered the house. “I don’t want to in­trude, wouldn’t be here at all if Per­cy hadn’t want­ed to see you all so bad­ly. . . .”

“Oh, Perce!” said Mrs. Weasley tear­ful­ly, reach­ing up to kiss him.

“. , . We’ve on­ly looked in for five min­utes, so I’ll have a stroll around the yard while you catch up with Per­cy. No, no, I as­sure you I don’t want to butt in! Well, if any­body cared to show me your charm­ing gar­den . . . Ah, that young man’s fin­ished, why doesn’t he take a stroll with me?”

The at­mo­sphere around the ta­ble changed per­cep­ti­bly. Ev­ery­body looked from Scrim­geour to Har­ry. No­body seemed to find Scrim­geour’s pre­tense that he did not know Har­ry’s name con­vinc­ing, or find it nat­ural that he should be cho­sen to ac­com­pa­ny the Min­is­ter around the gar­den when Gin­ny, Fleur, and George al­so had clean plates.

“Yeah, all right,” said Har­ry in­to the si­lence.

He was not fooled; for all Scrim­geour’s talk that they had just been in the area, that Per­cy want­ed to look up his fam­ily, this must be the re­al rea­son that they had come, so that Scrim­geour could speak to Har­ry alone.

“It’s fine,” he said qui­et­ly, as he passed Lupin, who had half risen from his chair. “Fine,” he added, as Mr. Weasley opened his mouth to speak.

“Won­der­ful!” said Scrim­geour, stand­ing back to let Har­ry pass

through the door ahead of him. “We’ll just take a turn around the gar­den, and Per­cy and I’ll be off. Car­ry on, ev­ery­one!”

Har­ry walked across the yard to­ward the Weasleys’ over­grown, snow­cov­ered gar­den, Scrim­geour limp­ing slight­ly at his side. He had, Har­ry knew, been Head of the Au­ror of­fice; he looked tough and bat­tlescarred, very dif­fer­ent from port­ly Fudge in his bowler hat.

“Charm­ing,” said Scrim­geour, stop­ping at the gar­den fence and look­ing out over the snowy lawn and the in­dis­tin­guish­able plants. “Charm­ing.”

Har­ry said noth­ing. He could tell that Scrim­geour was watch­ing him.

“I’ve want­ed to meet you for a very long time,” said Scrim­geour, af­ter a few mo­ments. “Did you know that?”

“No,” said Har­ry truth­ful­ly. ¦!.

“Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dum­ble­dore has been very pro­tec­tive of you,” said Scrim­geour. “Nat­ural, of course, nat­ural, af­ter what you’ve been through. . . . Es­pe­cial­ly what hap­pened at : the Min­istry …”:

He wait­ed for Har­ry to say some­thing, but Har­ry did not oblige, : so he went on, “I have been hop­ing for an oc­ca­sion to talk to you ev­er since I gained of­fice, but Dum­ble­dore has — most un­der­stand­ably, as I say — pre­vent­ed this.”

Still, Har­ry said noth­ing, wait­ing.

“The ru­mors that have flown around!” said Scrim­geour. “Well, of course, we both know how these sto­ries get dis­tort­ed … all these whis­pers of a prophe­cy . . . of you be­ing ‘the Cho­sen One’. . .”

They were get­ting near it now, Har­ry thought, the rea­son Scrim­geour was here.

“I as­sume that Dum­ble­dore has dis­cussed these mat­ters with you?”,

Har­ry de­lib­er­at­ed, won­der­ing whether he ought to lie or not. He looked at the lit­tle gnome prints all around the flowerbeds, ami the scuffedup patch that marked the spot where Fred had caught the gnome now wear­ing the tu­tu at the top of the Christ­mas tree. Fi­nal­ly, he de­cid­ed on the truth … or a bit of it.

“Yeah, we’ve dis­cussed it.”

“Have you, have you . . .” said Scrim­geour. Har­ry could see, out of the cor­ner of his eye, Scrim­geour squint­ing at him, so he pre­tend­ed to be very in­ter­est­ed in a gnome that had just poked its head out from un­der­neath a frozen rho­do­den­dron. “And what has Dum­ble­dore told you, Har­ry?”

“Sor­ry, but that’s be­tween us,” said Har­ry. He kept his voice as pleas­ant as he could, and Scrim­geour’s tone, too, was light and friend­ly as he said, “Oh, of course, if it’s a ques­tion of con­fi­dences, I wouldn’t want you to di­vulge . . . no, no … and in any case, does it re­al­ly mat­ter whether you are ‘the Cho­sen One’ or not?”

Har­ry had to mull that one over for a few sec­onds be­fore re­spond­ing. “I don’t re­al­ly know what you mean, Min­is­ter.”

“Well, of course, to you it will mat­ter enor­mous­ly,” said Scrim­geour with a laugh. “But to the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty at large . . . it’s all per­cep­tion, isn’t it? It’s what peo­ple be­lieve that’s im­por­tant.”

Har­ry said noth­ing. He thought he saw, dim­ly, where they were head­ing, but he was not go­ing to help Scrim­geour get there. The gnome un­der the rho­do­den­dron was now dig­ging for worms at its roots, and Har­ry kept his eyes fixed up­on it.

“Peo­ple be­lieve you are ‘the Cho­sen One,’ you see,” said Scrim­geour. “They think you quite the hero — which, of course, you arc, Har­ry, cho­sen or not! How many times have you faced He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named now? Well, any­way,” he pressed on, with­out wait­ing for a re­ply, “the point is, you are a sym­bol of hope lor many, Har­ry. The idea that there is some­body out there who might be able, who might even be des­tined, to de­stroy He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named — well, nat­ural­ly, it gives peo­ple a lift. And I can’t help but feel that, once you re­al­ize this, you might con­sid­er it, well, al­most a du­ty, to stand along­side the Min­istry, and give ev­ery­one a boost.”

The gnome had just man­aged to get hold of a worm. It was now tug­ging very hard on it, try­ing to get it out of the frozen ground. Har­ry was silent so long that Scrim­geour said, look­ing from Har­ry to the gnome, “Fun­ny lit­tle chaps, aren’t they? But what say you, Har­ry?”

“I don’t ex­act­ly un­der­stand what you want,” said Har­ry slow­ly. ‘”Stand along­side the Min­istry’ . . . What does that mean?”

“Oh, well, noth­ing at all on­er­ous, I as­sure you,” said Scrim­geour. “If you were to be seen pop­ping in and out of the Min­istry from time to time, for in­stance, that would give the right im­pres­sion. And of course, while you were there, you would have am­ple : op­por­tu­ni­ty to speak to Gawain Ro­bards, my suc­ces­sor as Head of the Au­ror of­fice. Do­lores Um­bridge has told me that you cher­ish an am­bi­tion to be­come an Au­ror. Well, that could be ar­ranged very eas­ily. …”

Har­ry felt anger bub­bling in the pit of his stom­ach: So Do­lores Um­bridge was still at the Min­istry, was she?

“So ba­si­cal­ly,” he said, as though he just want­ed to clar­ify a few points, “you’d like to give the im­pres­sion that I’m work­ing for the Min­istry?”

“It would give ev­ery­one a lift to think you were more in­volved, Har­ry,” said Scrim­geour, sound­ing re­lieved that Har­ry had cot­toned on so quick­ly. “‘The Cho­sen One,’ you know. . . It’s all about giv­ing peo­ple hope, the feel­ing that ex­cit­ing things are hap­pen­ing. …”

“But if I keep run­ning in and out of the Min­istry,” said Har­ry, still en­deav­or­ing to keep his voice friend­ly, “won’t that seem as though I ap­prove of what the Min­istry’s up to?”

“Well,” said Scrim­geour, frown­ing slight­ly, “well, yes, that’s part­ly why we’d like —”

“No, I don’t think that’ll work,” said Har­ry pleas­ant­ly. “You see, I don’t like some of the things the Min­istry’s do­ing. Lock­ing up Stan Shun­pike, for in­stance.”

Scrim­geour did not speak for a mo­ment but his ex­pres­sion hard­ened in­stant­ly. “I would not ex­pect you to un­der­stand,” he said, and he was not as suc­cess­ful at keep­ing anger out of his voice as Har­ry had been. “These are dan­ger­ous times, and cer­tain mea­sures need to be tak­en. You are six­teen years old —”

“Dum­ble­dore’s a lot old­er than six­teen, and he doesn’t think Stan should be in Azk­aban ei­ther,” said Har­ry. “You’re mak­ing Stan a scape­goat, just like you want to make me a mas­cot.”

They looked at each oth­er, long and hard. Fi­nal­ly Scrim­geour said, with no pre­tense at warmth, “I see. You pre­fer — like your hero, Dum­ble­dore — to dis­as­so­ci­ate your­self from the Min­istry?” “I don’t want to be used,” said Har­ry.

“Some would say it’s your du­ty to be used by the Min­istry!” “Yeah, and oth­ers might say its your du­ty to check that peo­ple re­al­ly are Death Eaters be­fore you chuck them in prison,” said Har­ry, his tem­per ris­ing now. “You’re do­ing what Bar­ty Crouch

did. You nev­er get it right, you peo­ple, do you? Ei­ther we’ve got Fudge, pre­tend­ing ev­ery­thing’s love­ly while peo­ple get mur­dered right un­der his nose, or we’ve got you, chuck­ing the wrong peo­ple in­to jail and try­ing to pre­tend you’ve got ‘the Cho­sen One’ work­ing for you!” ‘ i

“So you’re not ‘the Cho­sen One’?” said Scrim­geour. ‘

“I thought you said it didn’t mat­ter ei­ther way?” said Har­ry, with a bit­ter laugh. “Not to you any­way.”

“I shouldn’t have said that,” said Scrim­geour quick­ly. “It was tact­less —”

“No, it was hon­est,” said Har­ry. “One of the on­ly hon­est things you’ve said to me. You don’t care whether I live or die, but you do care that I help you con­vince ev­ery­one you’re win­ning the war against Volde­mort. I haven’t for­got­ten, Min­is­ter….”

He raised his right fist. There, shin­ing white on the back of his cold hand, were the scars which Do­lores Um­bridge had forced him to carve in­to his own flesh: I must not tell lies.

“I don’t re­mem­ber you rush­ing to my de­fense when I was try­ing to tell ev­ery­one Volde­mort was back. The Min­istry wasn’t so keen to be pals last year.”

They stood in si­lence as icy as the ground be­neath their feet. The gnome had fi­nal­ly man­aged to ex­tri­cate his worm and was now suck­ing on it hap­pi­ly, lean­ing against the bot­tom­most branch­es of the rho­do­den­dron bush.

“What is Dum­ble­dore up to?” said Scrim­geour brusque­ly. “Where does he go when he is ab­sent from Hog­warts?”

“No idea,” said Har­ry.

“And you wouldn’t tell me if you knew,” said Scrim­geour, “would you?”

“No, 1 wouldn’t,” said Har­ry.

“Well, then, I shall have to see whether I can’t find out by oth­er means.”

“You can try,” said Har­ry in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “But you seem clev­er­er than Fudge, so I’d have thought you’d have learned from his mis­takes. He tried in­ter­fer­ing at Hog­warts. You might have no­ticed he’s not Min­is­ter any­more, but Dum­ble­dore’s still head­mas­ter. I’d leave Dum­ble­dore alone, if I were you.”

There was a long pause.

“Well, it is clear to me that he has done a very good job on you,” said Scrim­geour, his eyes cold and hard be­hind his wirerimmed glass­es, “Dum­ble­dore’s man through and through, aren’t you, Pot­ter?”

“Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry. “Glad we straight­ened that out.”

And turn­ing his back on the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, he strode back to­ward the house.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 17: A Sluggish Memory


Late in the af­ter­noon, a few days af­ter New Year, Har­ry, Ron, and Gin­ny lined up be­side the kitchen fire to re­turn to Hog­warts. The Min­istry had ar­ranged this one­off con­nec­tion to the Floo Net­work to re­turn stu­dents quick­ly and safe­ly to the school. On­ly Mrs. Weasley was there to say good­bye, as Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, Bill, and Fleur were all at work. Mrs. Weasley dis­solved in­to tears at the mo­ment of part­ing. Ad­mit­ted­ly, it took very lit­tle to set her off late­ly; she had been cry­ing on and off ev­er since Per­cy had stormed from the house on Christ­mas Day with his glass­es splat­tered with mashed parsnip (for which Fred, George, and Gin­ny all claimed cred­it).

“Don’t cry, Mum,” said Gin­ny, pat­ting her on the back as Mrs. Weasley sobbed in­to her shoul­der. “It’s okay. …”

“Yeah, don’t wor­ry about us,” said Ron, per­mit­ting his moth­er to plant a very wet kiss on his cheek, “or about Per­cy. He’s such a prat, it’s not re­al­ly a loss, is it?”

Mrs. Weasley sobbed hard­er than ev­er as she en­fold­ed Har­ry in her arms.

“Promise me you’ll look af­ter your­self.. .. Stay out of trou­ble. …”

“I al­ways do, Mrs. Weasley,” said Har­ry. “I like a qui­et life, you know me.”

She gave a wa­tery chuck­le and stood back. “Be good, then, all of you. …”

Har­ry stepped in­to the emer­ald fire and shout­ed “Hog­warts!” He had one last fleet­ing view of the Weasleys’ kitchen and Mrs. Weasley’s tear­ful face be­fore the flames en­gulfed him; spin­ning very fast, he caught blurred glimpses of oth­er Wiz­ard­ing rooms, which were whipped out of sight be­fore he could get a prop­er look; then he was slow­ing down, fi­nal­ly stop­ping square­ly in the fire­place in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s of­fice. She bare­ly glanced up from her work as he clam­bered out over the grate.

“Evening, Pot­ter. Try not to get too much ash on the car­pet.”

“No, Pro­fes­sor.”

Har­ry straight­ened his glass­es and flat­tened his hair as Ron came spin­ning in­to view. When Gin­ny had ar­rived, all three of them trooped out of McG­ona­gall’s of­fice and off to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er. Har­ry glanced out of the cor­ri­dor win­dows as they passed; the sun was al­ready sink­ing over grounds car­pet­ed in deep­er snow than had lain over the Bur­row gar­den. In the dis­tance, he could see Ha­grid feed­ing Buck­beak in front of his cab­in.

“Baubles,” said Ron con­fi­dent­ly, when they reached the Fat La­dy, who was look­ing rather paler than usu­al and winced at his loud voice.

“No,” she said.

“What d’you mean, ‘no’ ?

“There is a new pass­word,” she said. “And please don’t shout.”

“But we’ve been away, how’re we sup­posed to — ?”

“Har­ry! Gin­ny!”

Hermione was hur­ry­ing to­ward them, very pink­faced and wear­ing a cloak, hat, and gloves.

“I got back a cou­ple of hours ago, I’ve just been down to vis­it Ha­grid and Buck — I mean With­er­wings,” she said breath­less­ly. “Did you have a good Christ­mas?”

“Yeah,” said Ron at once, “pret­ty event­ful, Ru­fus Scrim —” ] “I’ve got some­thing for you, Har­ry,” said Hermione, nei­ther look­ing at Ron nor giv­ing any sign that she had heard him. “Oh, hang on — pass­word. Ab­sti­nence.”

“Pre­cise­ly,” said the Fat La­dy in a fee­ble voice, and swung for­ward to re­veal the por­trait hole.

“What’s up with her?” asked Har­ry.

“Overindulged over Christ­mas, ap­par­ent­ly,” said Hermione, rolling her eyes as she led the way in­to the packed com­mon room. “She and her friend Vi­olet drank their way through all the wine in that pic­ture of drunk monks down by the Charms cor­ri­dor. Any­way…”

She rum­maged in her pock­et for a mo­ment, then pulled out a scroll of parch­ment with Dum­ble­dore’s writ­ing on it.

“Great,” said Har­ry, un­rolling it at once to dis­cov­er that his next les­son with Dum­ble­dore was sched­uled for the fol­low­ing night. “I’ve got loads to tell him — and you. Let’s sit down —”

But at that mo­ment there was a loud squeal of “Won­Won!” and Laven­der Brown came hurtling out of nowhere and flung her­self in­to Ron’s arms. Sev­er­al on­look­ers snig­gered; Hermione gave a tin­kling laugh and said, “There’s a ca­ble over here… Com­ing. Gin­ny?”

“No, thanks, I said I’d meet Dean,” said Gin­ny, though Har­ry could not help not­ic­ing that she did not sound very en­thu­si­as­tic. Leav­ing Ron and Laven­der locked in a kind of ver­ti­cal wrestling, match, Har­ry led Hermione over to the spare ta­ble.

“So how was your Christ­mas?”

“Oh, fine,” she shrugged. “Noth­ing spe­cial. How was it at Won­Won’s?”

“I’ll tell you in a minute,” said Har­ry. “Look, Hermione, can’t you —”

“No, I can’t,” she said flat­ly. “So don’t even ask.”

“I thought maybe, you know, over Christ­mas —”

“It was the Fat La­dy who drank a vat of five­hun­dredyearold wine, Har­ry, not me. So what was this im­por­tant news you want­ed to tell me?”

She looked too fierce to ar­gue with at that mo­ment, so Har­ry dropped the sub­ject of Ron and re­count­ed all that he had over­heard be­tween Mal­foy and Snape. When he had fin­ished, Hermione sat in thought for a mo­ment and then said, “Don’t you think — ?”

“— he was pre­tend­ing to of­fer help so that he could trick Mal­foy in­to telling him what he’s do­ing?”

“Well, yes,” said Hermione.

“Ron’s dad and Lupin think so,” Har­ry said grudg­ing­ly. “But this def­inite­ly proves Mal­foy’s plan­ning some­thing, you can’t de­ny that.”

“No, I can’t,” she an­swered slow­ly.

“And he’s act­ing on Volde­mort’s or­ders, just like I said!”

“Hmm .. . did ei­ther of them ac­tu­al­ly men­tion Volde­mort’s name?”

Har­ry frowned, try­ing to re­mem­ber. “I’m not sure … Snape def­inite­ly said ‘your mas­ter,’ and who else would that be?”

“I don’t know,” said Hermione, bit­ing her lip. “Maybe his fa­ther?”

She stared across the room, ap­par­ent­ly lost in thought, not even not­ic­ing Laven­der tick­ling Ron. “How’s Lupin?”

“Not great,” said Har­ry, and he told her all about Lupin’s mis­sion among the were­wolves and the dif­fi­cul­ties he was fac­ing. “Have you heard of this Fen­rir Grey­back?”

“Yes, I have!” said Hermione, sound­ing star­tled. “And so have you, Har­ry!”

“When, His­to­ry of Mag­ic? You know full well I nev­er lis­tened …”

“No, no, not His­to­ry of Mag­ic — Mal­foy threat­ened Bor­gin with Kim!” said Hermione. “Back in Knock­turn Al­ley, don’t you re­mem­ber? He told Bor­gin that Grey­back was an old fam­ily friend and that he’d be check­ing up on Bor­gin’s progress!”

Har­ry gaped at her. “I for­got! But this proves Mal­foy s a Death Eater, how else could he be in con­tact with Grey­back and telling him what to do?”

“It is pret­ty sus­pi­cious,” breathed Hermione. “Un­less . . .” “Oh, come on,” said Har­ry in ex­as­per­ation, “you can’t get round this one!”

“Well . . . there is the pos­si­bil­ity it was an emp­ty threat.” “You’re un­be­liev­able, you are,” said Har­ry, shak­ing his head.

“We’ll see who’s right. . . . You’ll be eat­ing your words, Hermione, just like the Min­istry. Oh yeah, 1 had a row with Ru­fus Scrim­geour as well. . . .”

And the rest of the evening passed am­ica­bly with both of them abus­ing the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, for Hermione, like Ron, thought that af­ter all the Min­istry had put Har­ry through the pre­vi­ous year, they had a great deal of nerve ask­ing him for help now.

The new term start­ed next morn­ing with a pleas­ant sur­prise for the sixth years: a large sign had been pinned to the com­mon room no­tice boards overnight.

AP­PARI­TION LESSONS

If you are sev­en­teen years of age, or will turn sev­en­teen on or be­fore the 31st Au­gust next, you are el­igi­ble for a twelve­week course of Ap­pari­tion Lessons from a Min­istry of Mag­ic Ap­pari­tion in­struc­tor. Please sign be­low if you would like to par­tic­ipate. Cost: 12 Galleons.

Har­ry and Ron joined the crowd that was jostling around the no­tice and tak­ing it in turns to write their names at the bot­tom. Ron was just tak­ing out his quill to sign af­ter Hermione when Laven­der crept up be­hind him, slipped her hands over his eyes, and trilled, “Guess who, Won­Won?” Har­ry turned to see Hermione stalk­ing off; he caught up with her, hav­ing no wish to stay be­hind with Ron and Laven­der, but to his sur­prise, Ron caught up with them on­ly a lit­tle way be­yond the por­trait hole, his ears bright red and his ex­pres­sion dis­grun­tled. With­out a word, Hermione sped up to walk with Neville.

“So — Ap­pari­tion,” said Ron, his tone mak­ing it per­fect­ly plain that Har­ry was not to men­tion what had just hap­pened. “Should be a laugh, eh?”

“I dun­no,” said Har­ry. “Maybe it’s bet­ter when you do it your­self, I didn’t en­joy it much when Dum­ble­dore took me along for the ride.”

“I for­got you’d al­ready done it. … I’d bet­ter pass my test first

time,” said Ron, look­ing anx­ious. “Fred and George did,” “Char­lie failed, though, didn’t he?” “Yeah, but Char­lie’s big­ger than me” — Ron held his arms out from his body as though he was a go­ril­la — “so Fred and George

didn’t go on about it much . . . not to his face any­way . . .” “When can we take the ac­tu­al test?” “Soon as we’re sev­en­teen. That’s on­ly March for me!” “Yeah, but you wouldn’t be able to Ap­pa­rate in here, not in the cas­tle . . .”

“Not the point, is it? Ev­ery­one would know I could Ap­pa­rate if I want­ed.”

Ron was not the on­ly one to be ex­cit­ed at the prospect of Ap­pari­tion. All that day there was much talk about the forth­com­ing , lessons; a great deal of store was set by be­ing able to van­ish and reap­pear at will.

“How cool will it be when we can just —” Sea­mus clicked his ringers to in­di­cate dis­ap­pear­an­ce. “Me cousin Fer­gus does it just to an­noy me, you wait till I can do it back. . . He’ll nev­er have an­oth­er peace­ful mo­ment. . . .”

Lost in vi­sions of this hap­py prospect, he flicked his wand a lit­tle too en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, so that in­stead of pro­duc­ing the foun­tain of pure wa­ter that was the ob­ject of to­day’s Charms les­son, he let out a hose­like jet that ric­ocheted off the ceil­ing and knocked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick flat on his face.

“Har­ry’s al­ready Ap­pa­rat­ed,” Ron told a slight­ly abashed Sea­mus, af­ter Pro­fes­sor Flitwick had dried him­self off with a wave of his wand and set Sea­mus lines: “I am a wiz­ard, not a ba­boon bran­dish­ing a stick.” “Dum — er — some­one took him. Side­Alon­gAp­pari­tion, you know.”

“Whoa!” whis­pered Sea­mus, and he, Dean, and Neville put their heads a lit­tle clos­er to hear what Ap­pari­tion felt like. For the rest of the day, Har­ry was be­sieged with re­quests from the oth­er sixth years to de­scribe the sen­sa­tion of Ap­pari­tion. All of them seemed awed, rather than put off, when he told them how un­com­fort­able it was, and he was still an­swer­ing de­tailed ques­tions at ten to eight that evening, when he was forced to lie and say that he need­ed to re­turn a book to the li­brary, so as to es­cape in time for his les­son with Dum­ble­dore.

The lamps in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice were lit, the por­traits of pre­vi­ous head­mas­ters were snor­ing gen­tly in their frames, and the Pen­sieve was ready up­on the desk once more. Dum­ble­dore’s hands lay on ei­ther side of it, the right one as black­ened and burnt­look­ing as ev­er. It did not seem to have healed at all and Har­ry won­dered, for per­haps the hun­dredth time, what had caused such a dis­tinc­tive in­ju­ry, but did not ask; Dum­ble­dore had said that he would know even­tu­al­ly and there was, in any case, an­oth­er sub­ject he want­ed to dis­cuss. But be­fore Har­ry could say any­thing about Snape and Mal­foy, Dum­ble­dore spoke.

“I hear that you met the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic over Christ­mas?” “Yes,” said Har­ry. “He’s not very hap­py with me.”

“No,” sighed Dum­ble­dore. “He is not very hap­py with me ei­ther. We must try not to sink be­neath our an­guish, Har­ry, but bat­tle on.”

Har­ry grinned.

“He want­ed me to tell the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty that the Min­istry’s do­ing a won­der­ful job.’

Dum­ble­dore smiled.

“It was Fudge’s idea orig­in­al­ly, you know. Dur­ing his last days in of­fice, when he was try­ing des­per­ate­ly to cling to his post, he sought a meet­ing with you, hop­ing that you would give him your

sup­port —”

“Af­ter ev­ery­thing Fudge did last year?” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. “Af­ter Um­bridge ?”

“I told Cor­nelius there was no chance of it, but the idea did not die when he left: of­fice. With­in hours of Scrim­geour’s ap­point­ment we met and he de­mand­ed that I ar­range a meet­ing with you —”

“So that’s why you ar­gued!” Har­ry blurt­ed out. “It was in the Dai­ly Prophet”‘

“The Prophet is bound to re­port the truth oc­ca­sion­al­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore, “if on­ly ac­ci­den­tal­ly. Yes, that was why we ar­gued. Well, it ap­pears that Ru­fus found a way to cor­ner you at last.”

“He ac­cused me of be­ing ‘Dum­ble­dore’s man through and through.’”

“How very rude of him.”

“I told him I was.”

Dum­ble­dore opened his mouth to speak and then closed it again. Be­hind Har­ry, Fawkes the phoenix let out a low, soft, mu­si­cal cry. To Har­ry’s in­tense em­bar­rass­ment, he sud­den­ly re­al­ized

that Dum­ble­dore’s bright blue eyes looked rather wa­tery, ami stared hasti­ly at his own knees. When Dum­ble­dore spoke, how­ev­er, his voice was quite steady.

“I am very touched, Har­ry.”

“Scrim­geour want­ed to know where you go when you’re not at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, still look­ing fixed­ly at his knees.

“Yes, he is very nosy about that,” said Dum­ble­dore, now sound­ing cheer­ful, and Har­ry thought it safe to look up again. “He has even at­tempt­ed to have me fol­lowed. Amus­ing, re­al­ly. He set Dawlish to tail me. It wasn’t kind. I have al­ready been forced to jinx Dawlish once; I did it again with the great­est re­gret.”

“So they still don’t know where you go?” asked Har­ry, hop­ing for more in­for­ma­tion on this in­trigu­ing sub­ject, but Dum­ble­dore mere­ly smiled over the top of his half­moon spec­ta­cles.

“No, they don’t, and the time is not quite right for you to know ei­ther. Now, I sug­gest we press on, un­less there’s any­thing else — ?” “There is, ac­tu­al­ly, sir,” said Har­ry. “It’s about Mal­foy and Snape.”

“Pro­fes­sor Snape, Har­ry.”

“Yes, sir. I over­heard them dur­ing Pro­fes­sor Slughorns par­ty . . . well, I fol­lowed them, ac­tu­al­ly. …”

Dum­ble­dore lis­tened to Har­ry’s sto­ry with an im­pas­sive face. When Har­ry had fin­ished he did not speak for a few mo­ments, then said, “Thank you for telling me this, Har­ry, but I sug­gest that you put it out of your mind. I do not think that it is of great im­por­tance.”

“Not of great im­por­tance?” re­peat­ed Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly. “Pro­fes­sor, did you un­der­stand — ?”

“Yes, Har­ry, blessed as I am with ex­traor­di­nary brain­pow­er, I un­der­stood ev­ery­thing you told me,” said Dum­ble­dore, a lit­tle sharply. “I think you might even con­sid­er the pos­si­bil­ity that I un­der­stood more than you did. Again, I am glad that you have con­lid­ed in me, but let me re­as­sure you that you have not told me any­thing that caus­es me dis­qui­et.”

Har­ry sat in seething si­lence, glar­ing at Dum­ble­dore. What was go­ing on? Did this mean that Dum­ble­dore had in­deed or­dered Snape to find out what Mal­foy was do­ing, in which case he had al­ready heard ev­ery­thing Har­ry had just told him from Snape? Or was he re­al­ly wor­ried by what he had heard, but pre­tend­ing not to be?

“So, sir,” said Har­ry, in what he hoped was a po­lite, calm voice, “you def­inite­ly still trust — ?”

“I have been tol­er­ant enough to an­swer that ques­tion al­ready,” said Dum­ble­dore, but he did not sound very tol­er­ant any­more. “My an­swer has not changed.”

“I should think not,” said a snide voice; Phineas Nigel­lus was ev­ident­ly on­ly pre­tend­ing to be asleep. Dum­ble­dore ig­nored him.

“And now, Har­ry, I must in­sist that we press on. I have more im­por­tant things to dis­cuss with you this evening.”

Har­ry sat there feel­ing mu­ti­nous. How would it be if he re­fused to per­mit the change of sub­ject, if he in­sist­ed up­on ar­gu­ing the case against Mal­foy? As though he had read Har­ry’s mind, Dum­ble­dore shook his head.

“Ah, Har­ry, how of­ten this hap­pens, even be­tween the best of friends! Each of us be­lieves that what he has to say is much more im­por­tant than any­thing the oth­er might have to con­trib­ute!”

“I don’t think what you’ve got to say is unim­por­tant, sir,” said Har­ry stiffly.

“Well, you are quite right, be­cause it is not,” said Dum­ble­dore briskly. “I have two more mem­ories to show you this evening, both ob­tained with enor­mous dif­fi­cul­ty, and the sec­ond of them is, 1 think, the most im­por­tant I have col­lect­ed.”

Har­ry did not say any­thing to this; he still felt an­gry at the re­cep­tion his con­fi­dences had re­ceived, but could not see what was to be gained by ar­gu­ing fur­ther.

“So,” said Dum­ble­dore, in a ring­ing voice, “we meet this evening to con­tin­ue the tale of Tom Rid­dle, whom we left last les­son poised on the thresh­old of his years at Hog­warts. You will re­mem­ber how ex­cit­ed he was to hear that he was a wiz­ard, that he re­fused my com­pa­ny on a trip to Di­agon Al­ley, and that I, in turn, warned him against con­tin­ued thiev­ery when he ar­rived at school.

“Well, the start of the school year ar­rived and with it came Tom Rid­dle, a qui­et boy in his sec­ond­hand robes, who lined up with the oth­er first years to be sort­ed. He was placed in Slytherin House al­most the mo­ment that the Sort­ing Hat touched his head,” con­tin­ued Dum­ble­dore, wav­ing his black­ened hand to­ward the shelf over his head where the Sort­ing Hat sat, an­cient and un­mov­ing. “How soon Rid­dle learned that the fa­mous founder of the House could talk to snakes, I do not know — per­haps that very evening. The knowl­edge can on­ly have ex­cit­ed him and in­creased his sense of self­im­por­tance.

“How­ev­er, if he was fright­en­ing or im­press­ing fel­low Slytherins with dis­plays of Parsel­tongue in their com­mon room, no hint of it reached the staff. He showed no sign of out­ward ar­ro­gance or ag­gres­sion at all. As an un­usu­al­ly tal­ent­ed and very good­look­ing or­phan, he nat­ural­ly drew at­ten­tion and sym­pa­thy from the staff al­most from the mo­ment of his ar­ri­val. He seemed po­lice, qui­et, and thirsty for knowl­edge. Near­ly all were most fa­vor­ably im­pressed by him.”

“Didn’t you tell them, sir, what he’d been like when you met him at the or­phan­age?” asked Har­ry.

“No, I did not. Though he had shown no hint of re­morse, it was pos­si­ble that he felt sor­ry for how he had be­haved be­fore and was re­solved to turn over a fresh leaf. I chose to give him that chance.”

Dum­ble­dore paused and looked in­quir­ing­ly at Har­ry, who had opened his mouth to speak. Here, again, was Dum­ble­dore’s ten­den­cy to trust peo­ple in spite of over­whelm­ing ev­idence that they did not de­serve it! But then Har­ry re­mem­bered some­thing. . . .

“But you didn’t re­al­ly trust him, sir, did you? He told me . . . the Rid­dle who came out of that di­ary said, ‘Dum­ble­dore nev­er seemed to like me as much as the oth­er teach­ers did.’”

“Let us say that I did not take it for grant­ed that he was trust­wor­thy,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I had, as I have al­ready in­di­cat­ed, re­solved to keep a close eye up­on him, and so I did. I can­not pre­tend that I gleaned a great deal from my ob­ser­va­tions at first. He was very guard­ed with me; he felt, I am sure, that in the thrill of dis­cov­er­ing his true iden­ti­ty he had told me a lit­tle too much. He was care­ful nev­er to re­veal as much again, but he could not take back what he had let slip in his ex­cite­ment, nor what Mrs. Cole had con­fid­ed in me. How­ev­er, he had the sense nev­er to try and charm me as he charmed so many of my col­leagues.

“As he moved up the school, he gath­ered about him a group of ded­icat­ed friends; I call them that, for want of a bet­ter term, al­though as I have al­ready in­di­cat­ed, Rid­dle un­doubt­ed­ly felt no af­fec­tion for any of them. This group had a kind of dark glam­our with­in the cas­tle. They were a mot­ley col­lec­tion; a mix­ture of the weak seek­ing pro­tec­tion, the am­bi­tious seek­ing some shared glo­ry, and the thug­gish grav­itat­ing to­ward a lead­er who could show them more re­fined forms of cru­el­ty. In oth­er words, they were the fore­run­ners of the Death Eaters, and in­deed some of them be­came the first Death Eaters af­ter leav­ing Hog­warts.

“Rigid­ly con­trolled by Rid­dle, they were nev­er de­tect­ed in open wrong­do­ing, al­though their sev­en years at Hog­warts were marked by a num­ber of nasty in­ci­dents to which they were nev­er sat­is­fac­to­ri­ly linked, the most se­ri­ous of which was, of course, the open­ing of the Cham­ber of Se­crets, which re­sult­ed in the death of a girl. As you know, Ha­grid was wrong­ly ac­cused of that crime.

“I have not been able to find many mem­ories of Rid­dle at Hog­warts,” said Dum­ble­dore, plac­ing his with­ered hand on the Pen­sieve. “Few who knew him then are pre­pared to talk about him; they are too ter­ri­fied. What I know, I found out af­ter he had left Hog­warts, af­ter much painstak­ing ef­fort, af­ter trac­ing those few who could be tricked in­to speak­ing, af­ter search­ing old records and ques­tion­ing Mug­gle and wiz­ard wit­ness­es alike.

“Those whom I could per­suade to talk told me that Rid­dle was ob­sessed with his par­ent­age. This is un­der­stand­able, of course; he had grown up in an or­phan­age and nat­ural­ly wished to know how he came to be there. It seems that he searched in vain for some trace of Tom Rid­dle se­nior on the shields in the tro­phy room, on the lists of pre­fects in the old school records, even in the books of Wiz­ard­ing his­to­ry. Fi­nal­ly he was forced to ac­cept that his fa­ther had nev­er set foot in Hog­warts. I be­lieve that it was then that he dropped the name for­ev­er, as­sumed the iden­ti­ty of Lord Volde­mort, and be­gan his in­ves­ti­ga­tions in­to his pre­vi­ous­ly de­spised moth­er’s fam­ily — the wom­an whom, you will re­mem­ber, he had thought could not be a witch if she had suc­cumbed to the shame­ful hu­man weak­ness of death.

“All he had to go up­on was the sin­gle name ‘Mar­vo­lo,’ which he knew from those who ran the or­phan­age had been his moth­er’s fa­ther’s name. Fi­nal­ly, af­ter painstak­ing re­search, through old books of Wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies, he dis­cov­ered the ex­is­tence of Slytherin’s sur­viv­ing line. In the sum­mer of his six­teenth year, he left the or­phan­age to which he re­turned an­nu­al­ly and set off to find his Gaunt rel­atives. And now, Har­ry, if you will stand …” :

Dum­ble­dore rose, and Har­ry saw that he was again hold­ing a. small crys­tal bot­tle filled with swirling, pearly mem­ory.

“I was very lucky to col­lect this,” he said, as he poured the gleam­ing mass in­to the Pen­sieve. “As you will un­der­stand when we have ex­pe­ri­enced it. Shall we?”

Har­ry stepped up to the stone basin and bowed obe­di­ent­ly un­til his face sank through the sur­face of the mem­ory; he felt the fa­mil­iar sen­sa­tion of falling through noth­ing­ness and then land­ed up­on a dirty stone floor in al­most to­tal dark­ness.

It took him sev­er­al sec­onds to rec­og­nize the place, by which time Dum­ble­dore had land­ed be­side him. The Gaunts’ house was now more in­de­scrib­ably filthy than any­where Har­ry had ev­er seen. The ceil­ing was thick with cob­webs, the floor coat­ed in grime; moldy and rot­ting food lay up­on the ta­ble amidst a mass of crust­ed pots. The on­ly light came from a sin­gle gut­ter­ing can­dle placed at the feet of a man with hair and beard so over­grown Har­ry could see nei­ther eyes nor mouth. He was slumped in an arm­chair by the fire, and Har­ry won­dered for a mo­ment whether he was dead. But

then there came a loud knock on the door and the man jerked awake, rais­ing a wand in his right hand and a short knife in his left.

The door creaked open. There on the thresh­old, hold­ing an old­fash­ioned lamp, stood a boy Har­ry rec­og­nized at once: tall, pale, dark­haired, and hand­some — the teenage Volde­mort.

Volde­mort’s eyes moved slow­ly around the hov­el and then found the man in the arm­chair. For a few sec­onds they looked at each oth­er, then the man stag­gered up­right, the many emp­ty bot­tles at his feet clat­ter­ing and tin­kling across the floor.

“YOU!” he bel­lowed. “YOU!”

And he hur­tled drunk­en­ly at Rid­dle, wand and knife held aloft.

“Stop.”

Rid­dle spoke in Parsel­tongue. The man skid­ded in­to the ta­ble, send­ing moldy pots crash­ing to the floor. He stared at Rid­dle. There was a long si­lence while they con­tem­plat­ed each oth­er. The man broke it.

“You speak it?”

“Yes, I speak it,” said Rid­dle. He moved for­ward in­to the room, al­low­ing the door to swing shut be­hind him. Har­ry could not help but feel a re­sent­ful ad­mi­ra­tion for Volde­mort’s com­plete lack of fear. His race mere­ly ex­pressed dis­gust and, per­haps, dis­ap­point­ment.

“Where is Mar­vo­lo?” he asked.

“Dead,” said the oth­er. “Died years ago, didn’t he?”

Rid­dle frowned.

“Who are you, then?”

“I’m Morfin, ain’t I?”

“Mar­vo­lo’s son?”

“‘Course I am, then…” • ,, .

Morfin pushed the hair out of his dirty face, the bet­ter to see Rid­dle, and Har­ry saw that he wore Mar­vo­lo’s black­stoned ring on his right hand.

“I thought you was that Mug­gle,” whis­pered Morfin. “You look mighty like that Mug­gle.”

“What Mug­gle?” said Rid­dle sharply.

“That Mug­gle what my sis­ter took a fan­cy to, that Mug­gle what lives in the big house over the way,” said Morfin, and he spat un­ex­pect­ed­ly up­on the floor be­tween them. “You look right like him. Rid­dle. But he’s old­er now, in ‘e? He’s old­er’n you, now I think on it. …”

Morfin looked slight­ly dazed and swayed a lit­tle, still clutch­ing the edge of the ta­ble for sup­port. “He come back, see,” he added stupid­ly.

Volde­mort was gaz­ing at Morfin as though ap­prais­ing his pos­si­bil­ities. Now he moved a lit­tle clos­er and said, “Rid­dle came back?”

“Ar, he left her, and serve her right, mar­ry­ing filth!” said Morfin, spit­ting on the floor again. “Robbed us, mind, be­fore she ran off. , Where’s the lock­et, eh, where’s Slytherin’s lock­et?”

Volde­mort did not an­swer. Morfin was work­ing him­self in­to a rage again; he bran­dished his knife and shout­ed, “Dis­hon­ored us, , she did, that lit­tle slut! And whore you, com­ing here and ask­ing ques­tions about all that? It’s over, in­nit. . . . It’s over. …”

He looked away, stag­ger­ing slight­ly, and Volde­mort moved for­ward. As he did so, an un­nat­ural dark­ness fell, ex­tin­guish­ing Volde­mort’s lamp and Morfin’s can­dle, ex­tin­guish­ing ev­ery­thing. . . . Dum­ble­dore’s fin­gers closed tight­ly around Har­ry’s arm and they were soar­ing back in­to the present again. The soft gold­en light in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice seemed to daz­zle Har­ry’s eyes af­ter that im­pen­etra­ble dark­ness.

“Is that all?” said Har­ry at once. “Why did it go dark, what hap­pened?”

“Be­cause Morfin could not re­mem­ber any­thing from that point on­ward,” said Dum­ble­dore, ges­tur­ing Har­ry back in­to his seat. “When he awoke next morn­ing, he was ly­ing on the floor, quite alone. Mar­vo­lo’s ring had gone.

“Mean­while, in the vil­lage of Lit­tle Hangle­ton, a maid was run­ning along the High Street, scream­ing that there were three bod­ies ly­ing in the draw­ing room of the big house: Tom Rid­dle Se­nior and his moth­er and fa­ther.

“The Mug­gle au­thor­ities were per­plexed. As far as I am aware, they do not know to this day how the Rid­dles died, for the Avadu Ke­davra curse does not usu­al­ly leave any sign of dam­age. . . . The ex­cep­tion sits be­fore me,” Dum­ble­dore added, with a nod to Har­ry’s scar. “The Min­istry, on the oth­er hand, knew at once that this was a wiz­ard’s mur­der. They al­so knew that a con­vict­ed Mug­gle­hater lived across the val­ley from the Rid­dle house, a Mug­gle­hater who had al­ready been im­pris­oned once for at­tack­ing one of the mur­dered peo­ple.

“So the Min­istry called up­on Morfin. They did not need to ques­tion him, to use Ver­itaserum or Legili­men­cy. He ad­mit­ted to the mur­der on the spot, giv­ing de­tails on­ly the mur­der­er could know. He was proud, he said, to have killed the Mug­gles, had been await­ing his chance all these years. He hand­ed over his wand, which was proved at once to have been used to kill the Rid­dles. And he per­mit­ted him­self to be led off to Azk­aban with­out a fight.

All that dis­turbed him was the fact that his fa­thers ring had dis­ap­peared. ‘He’ll kill me for los­ing it,’ he told his cap­tors over and over again. ‘He’ll kill me for los­ing his ring.’ And that, ap­par­ent­ly, was all he ev­er said again. He lived out the re­main­der of his life in Azk­aban, lament­ing the loss of Mar­vo­lo’s last heir­loom, and is buried be­side the prison, along­side the oth­er poor souls who have ex­pired with­in its walls.”

“So Volde­mort stole Morfin’s wand and used it?” said Har­ry, sit­ting up straight.

“That’s right,” said Dum­ble­dore. “We have no mem­ories to show us this, but I think we can be fair­ly sure what hap­pened. Volde­mort Stu­pe­fied his un­cle, took his wand, and pro­ceed­ed across the val­ley to ‘the big house over the way.’ There he mur­dered the Mug­gle man who had aban­doned his witch moth­er, and, for good mea­sure, his Mug­gle grand­par­ents, thus oblit­er­at­ing the last of the un­wor­thy Rid­dle line and re­veng­ing him­self up­on the fa­ther who nev­er want­ed him. Then he re­turned to the Gaunt hov­el, per­formed the com­plex bit of mag­ic that would im­plant a false mem­ory in his un­cle’s mind, laid Morfin’s wand be­side its un­con­scious own­er, pock­et­ed the an­cient ring he wore, and de­part­ed.”

“And Morfin nev­er re­al­ized he hadn’t done it?”

“Nev­er,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He gave, as I say, a full and boast­ful con­fes­sion.”

“But he had this re­al mem­ory in him all the time!” “Yes, but it took a great deal of skilled Legili­men­cy to coax it out of him,” said Dum­ble­dore, “and why should any­body delve fur­ther in­to Morfin’s mind when he had al­ready con­fessed to the crime? How­ev­er, I was able to se­cure a vis­it to Morfin in the last weeks of his life, by which time I was at­tempt­ing to dis­cov­er as much as I could about Volde­mort’s past. I ex­tract­ed this mem­ory with dif­fi­cul­ty. When I saw what it con­tained, I at­tempt­ed to use it to se­cure Morfin’s re­lease from Azk­aban. Be­fore the Min­istry reached their de­ci­sion, how­ev­er, Morfin had died.”

“But how come the Min­istry didn’t re­al­ize that Volde­mort had done all that to Morfin?” Har­ry asked an­gri­ly “He was un­der­age at the time, wasn’t he? I thought they could de­tect un­der­age mag­ic!” “You are quite right — they can de­tect mag­ic, but not the per­pe­tra­tor: You will re­mem­ber that you were blamed by the Min­istry for the Hov­er Charm that was, in fact, cast by —”

“Dob­by,” growled Har­ry; this in­jus­tice still ran­kled. “So if you’re un­der­age and you do mag­ic in­side an adult witch or wiz­ard’s house, the Min­istry won’t know?”

“They will cer­tain­ly be un­able to tell who per­formed the mag­ic,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing slight­ly at the look of great in­dig­na­tion on Har­rys face. “They re­ly on witch and wiz­ard par­ents to en­force their off­spring’s obe­di­ence while with­in their walls.”

“Well, that’s rub­bish,” snapped Har­ry. “Look what hap­pened here, look what hap­pened to Morfin!”

“I agree,” said Dum­ble­dore. “What­ev­er Morfin was, he did not de­serve to die as he did, blamed for mur­ders he had not com­mit­ted. But it is get­ting late, and I want you to see this oth­er mem­ory be­fore we part. …”

Dum­ble­dore took from an in­side pock­et an­oth­er crys­tal phial and Har­ry fell silent at once, re­mem­ber­ing that Dum­ble­dore had said it was the most im­por­tant one he had col­lect­ed. Har­ry no­ticed that the con­tents proved dif­fi­cult to emp­ty in­to the Pen­sieve, as though they had con­gealed slight­ly; did mem­ories go bad?

“This will not take long,” said Dum­ble­dore, when he had fi­nal­ly emp­tied the phial. “We shall be back be­fore you know it. Once more in­to the Pen­sieve, then . . .”

And Har­ry fell again through the sil­ver sur­face, land­ing this time right in front of a man he rec­og­nized at once.

It was a much younger Ho­race Slughorn. Har­ry was so used to him bald that he found the sight of Slughorn with thick, shiny, straw­col­ored hair quite dis­con­cert­ing; it looked as though he had had his head thatched, though there was al­ready a shiny Galleon­sized bald patch on his crown. His mus­tache, less mas­sive than it was these days, was gin­gery­blond. He was not quite as ro­tund as the Slughorn Har­ry knew, though the gold­en but­tons on his rich­ly em­broi­dered waist­coat were tak­ing a fair amount of strain. His lit­tle feet rest­ing up­on a vel­vet pouffe, he was sit­ting well back in a com­fort­able winged arm­chair, one hand grasp­ing a small glass of wine, the oth­er search­ing through a box of crys­tal­ized pineap­ple.

Har­ry looked around as Dum­ble­dore ap­peared be­side him and saw that they were stand­ing in Slughorn’s of­fice. Haifa dozen boys were sit­ting around Slughorn, all on hard­er or low­er seats than his, and all in their mid­teens. Har­ry rec­og­nized Volde­mort at once. His was the most hand­some face and he looked the most re­laxed of all the boys. His right hand lay neg­li­gent­ly up­on the arm of his chair; with a jolt, Har­ry saw that he was wear­ing Mar­vo­lo’s goldand­black ring; he had al­ready killed his fa­ther.

“Sir, is it true that Pro­fes­sor Mer­ry­thought is re­tir­ing?” he asked.

“Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said Slughorn, wag­ging a re­prov­ing, sug­ar­cov­ered fin­ger at Rid­dle, though ru­in­ing the ef­fect slight­ly by wink­ing. “I must say, I’d like to know where you get your in­for­ma­tion, boy, more knowl­edge­able than half the staff, you are.”

Rid­dle smiled; the oth­er boys laughed and cast him ad­mir­ing looks.

“What with your un­can­ny abil­ity to know things you shouldn’t, and your care­ful flat­tery of the peo­ple who mat­ter — thank you fm the pineap­ple, by the way, you’re quite right, it is my fa­vorite — “

As sev­er­al of the boys tit­tered, some­thing very odd hap­pened. The whole room was sud­den­ly filled with a thick white fog, so that Har­ry could see noth­ing but the face of Dum­ble­dore, who was stand­ing be­side him. Then Slughorn’s voice rang out through the mist, un­nat­ural­ly loud­ly, “You’ll go wrong, boy, mark my words. “

The fog cleared as sud­den­ly as it had ap­peared and yet no­body made any al­lu­sion to it, nor did any­body look as though any­thing un­usu­al had just hap­pened. Be­wil­dered, Har­ry looked around as a small gold­en clock stand­ing up­on Slughorn’s desk chimed eleven o’clock.

“Good gra­cious, is it that time al­ready?” said Slughorn. “You’d bet­ter get go­ing, boys, or we’ll all be in trou­ble. Lestrange, I want your es­say by to­mor­row or it’s de­ten­tion. Same goes for you, Av­ery.”

Slughorn pulled him­self out of his arm­chair and car­ried his emp­ty glass over to his desk as the boys filed out. Volde­mort, how­ev­er, stayed be­hind. Har­ry could tell he had daw­dled de­lib­er­ate­ly, want­ing to be last in the room with Slughorn.

“Look sharp, Tom,” said Slughorn, turn­ing around and find­ing him still present. “You don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a pre­fect…”

“Sir, I want­ed to ask you some­thing.”

“Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away….”

“Sir, I won­dered what you know about. . . about Hor­crux­es?”

And it hap­pened all over again: The dense fog filled the room so that Har­ry could not see Slughorn or Volde­mort at all; on­ly Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing serene­ly be­side him. Then Slughorn’s voice boomed out again, just as it had done be­fore.

“I don’t know any­thing about Hor­crux­es and I wouldn’t tell you if I did! Now get out of here at once and don’t let me catch you men­tion­ing them again!”

“Well, that’s that,” said Dum­ble­dore placid­ly be­side Har­ry.

“Time to go.”

And Har­ry’s feet left the floor to fall, sec­onds lat­er, back on­to the

rug in front of Dum­ble­dore’s desk.

“That’s all there is?” said Har­ry blankly.

Dum­ble­dore had said that this was the most im­por­tant mem­ory of all, but he could not see what was so sig­nif­icant about it. Ad­mit­ted­ly the fog, and the fact that no­body seemed to have no­ticed it, was odd, but oth­er than that noth­ing seemed to have hap­pened ex­cept that Volde­mort had asked a ques­tion and failed to get an an­swer.

“As you might have no­ticed,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­seat­ing him­self be­hind his desk, “that mem­ory has been tam­pered with.”

“Tam­pered with?” re­peat­ed Har­ry, sit­ting back down too.

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Pro­fes­sor Slughorn has med­dled with his own rec­ol­lec­tions.”

“But why would he do that?”

“Be­cause, I think, he is ashamed of what he re­mem­bers,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He has tried to re­work the mem­ory to show him­self in a bet­ter light, oblit­er­at­ing those parts which he does not wish me to see. It is, as you will have no­ticed, very crude­ly done, and that is all to the good, for it shows that the true mem­ory is still there be­neath the al­ter­ations.

“And so, for the first time, I am giv­ing you home­work, Har­ry. It will be your job to per­suade Pro­fes­sor Slughorn to di­vulge the re­al mem­ory, which will un­doubt­ed­ly be our most cru­cial piece of in­for­ma­tion of all.”

Har­ry stared at him.

“But sure­ly, sir,” he said, keep­ing his voice as re­spect­ful as pos­si­ble, “you don’t need me — you could use Legili­men­cy … or Ver­itaserum. …”

“Pro­fes­sor Slughorn is an ex­treme­ly able wiz­ard who will be ex­pect­ing both,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He is much more ac­com­plished at Oc­clu­men­cy than poor Morfin Gaunt, and I would be as­ton­ished if he has not car­ried an an­ti­dote to Ver­itaserum with him ev­er since I co­erced him in­to giv­ing me this trav­es­ty of a rec­ol­lec­tion.

“No, I think it would be fool­ish to at­tempt to wrest the truth from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn by force, and might do much more harm than good; I do not wish him to leave Hog­warts. How­ev­er, he has his weak­ness­es like the rest of us, and I be­lieve that you are the one per­son who might be able to pen­etrate his de­fens­es. It is most im­por­tant that we se­cure the true mem­ory, Har­ry. . . . How im­por­tant, we will on­ly know when we have seen the re­al thing. So, good luck . . . and good night.”

A lit­tle tak­en aback by the abrupt dis­missal, Har­ry got to his feet quick­ly. “Good night, sir.”

As he closed the study door be­hind him, he dis­tinct­ly heard Phineas Nigel­lus say, “I can’t see why the boy should be able to do it bet­ter than you, Dum­ble­dore.”

“I wouldn’t ex­pect you to, Phineas,” replied Dum­ble­dore, and Fawkes gave an­oth­er low, mu­si­cal cry.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 18: Birthday Surprises


The next day Har­ry con­fid­ed in both Ron and Hermione the task that Dum­ble­dore had set him, though sep­arate­ly, for Hermione still re­fused to re­main in Ron’s pres­ence longer than it took to give him a con­temp­tu­ous look.

Ron thought that Har­ry was un­like­ly to have any trou­ble with Slughorn at all.

‘He loves you,’ he said over break­fast, wav­ing an airy fork­ful of fried egg. ‘Won’t refuse you any­thing, will he? Not his lit­tle Po­tions Prince. Just hang back af­ter class this af­ter­noon and ask him.’

Hermione, how­ev­er, took a gloo­mi­er view.

‘He must be de­ter­mined to hide what re­al­ly hap­pened if Dum­ble­dore couldn’t get it out of him,’ she said in a low voice, as they stood in the de­sert­ed, snowy court­yard at break. ‘Hor­crux­es … Hor­crux­es … I’ve nev­er even heard of them …’

‘You haven’t?’

Har­ry was dis­ap­point­ed; he had hoped that Hermione might have been able to give him a clue as to what Hor­crux­es were.

‘They must be re­al­ly ad­vanced Dark mag­ic, or why would Volde­mort have want­ed to know about them? I think it’s go­ing to be dif­fi­cult to get the in­for­ma­tion, Har­ry, you’ll have to be very care­ful about how you ap­proach Slughorn, think out a strat­egy …”

‘Ron reck­ons 1 should just hang back af­ter Po­tions this af­ter­noon …’

‘Oh, well, if Won­Won thinks that, you’d bet­ter do it,’ she said, flar­ing up at once. ‘Af­ter all, when has Won­Won’s judge­ment ev­er been faulty?’

‘Hermione, can’t you —’

‘No!’ she said an­gri­ly, and stormed away, leav­ing Har­ry alone and an­kledeep in snow.

Po­tions lessons were un­com­fort­able enough these days, see­ing as Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had to share a desk. To­day, Hermione moved her caul­dron around the ta­ble so that she was close to Ernie, and ig­nored both Har­ry and Ron.

‘What’ve you done?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, look­ing at Hermione’s haughty pro­file.

But be­fore Har­ry could an­swer, Slughorn was call­ing for si­lence from the front of the room.

‘Set­tle down, set­tle down, please! Quick­ly, now, lots of work to get through this af­ter­noon! Gol­palott’s Third Law … who can tell me -? But Miss Granger can, of course!’

Hermione re­cit­ed at top speed: ‘Gol­palott’sThird­Law- stat­esthatthean­ti­dote­forablend­ed­poi­son­will­bee­qual­to- morethanthe­sumofthean­ti­dotes­fore­achofthe­sep­ar­ale- com­po­nents.’

‘Pre­cise­ly!’ beamed Slughorn. Ten points for Gryffind­or! Now, if we ac­cept Gol­palott’s Third Law as true …”

Har­ry was go­ing to have to take Slughorn’s word for it that Gol­palott’s Third Law was true, be­cause he had not un­der­stood any of it. No­body apart from Hermione seemed to be fol­low­ing what Slughorn said next, ei­ther.

‘… which means, of course, that as­sum­ing we have achieved cor­rect iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of the po­tion’s in­gre­di­ents by Scarpin’s Rev­elaspell, our pri­ma­ry aim is not the rel­ative­ly sim­ple one of se­lect­ing an­ti­dotes to those in­gre­di­ents in a

of them­selves, but to find that added com­po­nent which will, by an al­most al­chem­ical pro­cess, trans­form these dis­parate el­ements -’

Ron was sit­ting be­side Har­ry with his mouth hal­fopen, doo­dling ab­sent­ly on his new copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. Ron kept for­get­ting that he could no longer re­ly on Hermione to help him out of trou­ble when he failed to grasp what was go­ing on.

‘… and so,’ fin­ished Slughorn, ‘I want each of you to come and take one of these phials from my desk. You are to cre­ate an an­ti­dote for the poi­son with­in it be­fore the end of the les­son. Good luck, and don’t for­get your pro­tec­tive gloves!’

Hermione had left her stool and was halfway to­wards Siughorn’s desk be­fore the rest of the class had re­alised it was time to move, and by the time Har­ry, Ron and Ernie re­turned to the ta­ble, she had al­ready tipped the con­tents of her phial in­to her caul­dron and was kin­dling a fire un­der­neath it.

‘it’s a shame that the Prince won’t be able to help you much with this, Har­ry,’ she said bright­ly as she straight­ened up. ‘You have to un­der­stand the prin­ci­ples in­volved this time. No short cuts or cheats!’

An­noyed, Har­ry un­corked the poi­son he had tak­en from Siughorn’s desk, which was a gar­ish shade of pink, tipped it in­to his caul­dron and lit a fire un­der­neath it. He did not have the faintest idea what he was sup­posed to do next. He glanced at Ron, who was now stand­ing there look­ing rather gorm­less, hav­ing copied ev­ery­thing Har­ry had done.

‘You sure the Prince hasn’t got any tips?’ Ron mut­tered to Har­ry.

Har­ry pulled out his trusty copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and turned to the chap­ter on An­ti­dotes. There was Gol­palott’s Third Law, stat­ed word for word as Hermione had re­cit­ed it, but not a sin­gle il­lu­mi­nat­ing note in the Prince’s hand to ex­plain what it meant. Ap­par­ent­ly the Prince, like Hermione, had had no dif­fi­cul­ty un­der­stand­ing it.

‘Noth­ing,’ said Har­ry gloo­mi­ly.

Hermione was now wav­ing her wand en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly over her caul­dron. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, they could not copy the spell she was do­ing be­cause she was now so good at non­ver­bal in­can­tations that she did not need to say the words aloud. Ernie Macmil­lan, how­ev­er, was mut­ter­ing, ‘Spe­cialis rev­elio!’ over his caul­dron, which sound­ed im­pres­sive, so Har­ry and Ron has­tened to im­itate him.

It took Har­ry on­ly five min­utes to re­alise that his rep­uta­tion as the best po­tion­mak­er in the class was crash­ing around his ears. Slughorn had peered hope­ful­ly in­to his caul­dron on his first cir­cuit of the dun­geon, prepar­ing to ex­claim in de­light as he usu­al­ly did, and in­stead had with­drawn his head hasti­ly, cough­ing, as the smell of bad eggs over­whelmed him. Hermione’s ex­pres­sion could not have been any smug­ger; she had loathed be­ing out­per­formed in ev­ery Po­tions class. She was now de­cant­ing the mys­te­ri­ous­ly sep­arat­ed in­gre­di­ents of her poi­son in­to ten dif­fer­ent crys­tal phials. More to avoid watch­ing this ir­ri­tat­ing sight than any­thing else, Har­ry bent over the Half­Blood Prince’s book and turned a few pages with un­nec­es­sary force.

And there it was, scrawled right across a long list of an­ti­dotes.

Just shove a be­zoar down their throats.

Har­ry stared at these words for a mo­ment. Hadn’t he once, long ago, heard of be­zoars? Hadn’t Snape men­tioned them in their first ev­er Po­tions les­son? ‘A stone tak­en from the stom­ach of a goat, which will pro­tect from most poi­sons.’

It was not an an­swer to the Gol­palott prob­lem, and had Snape still been their teach­er, Har­ry would not have dared do it, but this was a mo­ment for des­per­ate mea­sures. He has­tened to­wards the store cup­board and rum­maged with­in it, push­ing aside uni­corn horns and tan­gles of dried herbs un­til he found, at the very back, a small card box on which had been scrib­bled the word ‘Be­zoars’.

He opened the box just as Slughorn called, Two min­utes left, ev­ery­one!’ In­side were half a dozen shriv­elled brown ob­jects, look­ing more like driedup kid­neys than re­al stones. Har­ry seized one, put the box back in the cup­board and hur­ried back to his caul­dron.

‘Time’s … UP!’ called Slughorn ge­nial­ly. ‘Well, let’s see how you’ve done! Blaise … what have you got for me?’

Slow­ly, Slughorn moved around the room, ex­am­in­ing the var­ious an­ti­dotes. No­body had fin­ished the task, al­though Hermione was try­ing to cram a few more in­gre­di­ents in­to her bot­tle be­fore Slughorn reached her. Ron had giv­en up com­plete­ly, and was mere­ly try­ing to avoid breath­ing in the pu­trid fumes is­su­ing from his caul­dron. Har­ry stood there wait­ing, the be­zoar clutched in a slight­ly sweaty hand.

Slughorn reached their ta­ble last. He sniffed Ernie’s po­tion and passed on to Ron’s with a gri­mace. He did not linger over Ron’s caul­dron, but backed away swift­ly, retch­ing slight­ly.

‘And you, Har­ry,’ he said. ‘What have you got to show me?’

Har­ry held out his hand, the be­zoar sit­ting on his palm.

Slughorn looked down at it for a full ten sec­onds. Har­ry won­dered, for a mo­ment, whether he was go­ing to shout at him. Then he threw back his head and roared with laugh­ter.

‘You’ve got a nerve, boy!’ he boomed, tak­ing the be­zoar and hold­ing it up so that the class could see it. ‘Oh, you’re like your moth­er … well, 1 can’t fault you … a be­zoar would cer­tain­ly act as an an­ti­dote to all these po­tions!’

Hermione, who was sweaty­faced and had soot on her nose, looked livid. Her half­fin­ished an­ti­dote, com­pris­ing fiftyt­wo in­gre­di­ents in­clud­ing a chunk of her own hair,

bub­bled slug­gish­ly be­hind Slughorn, who had eyes for no­body but Har­ry.

‘And you thought of a be­zoar all by your­self, did you, Har­ry?’ she asked through grit­ted teeth.

That’s the in­di­vid­ual spir­it a re­al po­tion­mak­er needs!’ said Slughorn hap­pi­ly, be­fore Har­ry could re­ply. ‘Just like his moth­er, she had the same in­tu­itive grasp of po­tion­mak­ing, it’s un­doubt­ed­ly from Lily he gets it … yes, Har­ry, yes, if you’ve got a be­zoar to hand, of course that would do the trick … al­though as they don’t work on ev­ery­thing, and are pret­ty rare, it’s still worth know­ing how to mix an­ti­dotes …’

The on­ly per­son in the room look­ing an­gri­er than Hermione was Mal­foy, who, Har­ry was pleased to see, had spilled some­thing that looked like cat sick over him­self. Be­fore ei­ther of them could ex­press their fury that Har­ry had come top of the class by not do­ing any work, how­ev­er, the bell rang.

Time to pack up!’ said Slughorn. ‘And an ex­tra ten points to Gryffind­or for sheer cheek!’

Still chuck­ling, he wad­dled back to his desk at the front of the dun­geon.

Har­ry daw­dled be­hind, tak­ing an in­or­di­nate amount of time to do up his bag. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione wished him luck as they left; both looked rather an­noyed. At last Har­ry and Slughorn were the on­ly two left in the room.

‘Come on, now, Har­ry, you’ll be late for your next les­son,’ said Slughorn af­fa­bly, snap­ping the gold clasps shut on his drag­on­skin brief­case.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry, re­mind­ing him­self ir­re­sistibly of Volde­mort, ‘1 want­ed to ask you some­thing.’

‘Ask away, then, my dear boy, ask away …”

‘Sir, 1 won­dered what you know about … about Hor­crux­es?’

Slughorn froze. His round face seemed to sink in up­on it­self. He licked his lips and said hoarse­ly, ‘What did you say?’ ‘I asked whether you know any­thing about Hor­crux­es, sir. You see -’

‘Dum­ble­dore put you up to this,’ whis­pered Slughorn.

His voice had changed com­plete­ly. It was not ge­nial any more, but shocked, ter­ri­fied. He fum­bled in his breast pock­et and pulled out a hand­ker­chief, mop­ping his sweat­ing brow.

‘Dum­ble­dore’s shown you that - that mem­ory,’ said Slughorn. ‘Well? Hasn’t he?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, de­cid­ing on the spot that it was best not to lie.

‘Yes, of course,’ said Slughorn qui­et­ly, still dab­bing at his white face. ‘Of course … well, if you’ve seen that mem­ory, Har­ry, you’ll know that I don’t know any­thing - any­thing -he re­peat­ed the word force­ful­ly ‘- about Hor­crux­es.’

He seized his drag­on­skin brief­case, stuffed his hand­ker­chief back in­to his pock­et and marched to the dun­geon door.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, ‘I just thought there might be a bit more to the mem­ory -’

‘Did you?’ said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren’t you? WRONG!’

He bel­lowed the last word and, be­fore Har­ry could say an­oth­er word, slammed the dun­geon door be­hind him.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view Hermione was still seething at the way Har­ry had tri­umphed with­out do­ing the work prop­er­ly. Ron was re­sent­ful that Har­ry hadn’t slipped him a be­zoar, too.

‘It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!’ said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. ‘Look, I had to try and soft­en him up so I could ask him about Volde­mort, didn’t I? Oh, will you gel a grip!’ he added in ex­as­per­ation, as Ron winced at the sound of the name.

In­fu­ri­at­ed by his fail­ure and by Ron and Hermione’s at­ti-

tudes, Har­ry brood­ed for the next few days over what to do next about Slughorn. He de­cid­ed that, for the time be­ing, he would let Slughorn think that he had for­got­ten all about Hor­crux­es; it was sure­ly best to lull him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack.

When Har­ry did noi ques­tion Slughorn again, the Po­tions mas­ter re­vert­ed to his usu­al af­fec­tion­ate treat­ment of him, and ap­peared to have put the mat­ter from his mind. Har­ry await­ed an in­vi­ta­tion to one of his lit­tle evening par­ties, de­ter­mined to ac­cept this time, even if he had to resched­ule Quid­ditch prac­ tice. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, no such in­vi­ta­tion ar­rived. Har­ry checked with Hermione and Gin­ny: nei­ther of them had re­ceived an in­vi­ta­tion and nor, as far as they knew, had any­body else. Har­ry could not help won­der­ing whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as for­get­ful as he ap­peared, sim­ply de­ter­mined to give Har­ry no ad­di­tion­al op­por­tu­ni­ties to ques­tion him.

Mean­while, the Hog­warts li­brary had failed Hermione for the first lime in liv­ing mem­ory. She was so shocked, she even for­got that she was an­noyed at Har­ry for his trick with the be­zoar,

‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do!” she told him. ‘Not a sin­gle one! I’ve been right through the re­strict­ed sec­tion and even in the most hor­ri­ble books, where they tell you how to brew the most grue­some po­tions -noth­ing! All I could find was this, in the in­tro­duci­ion to Mag­ick Mostc Evilc — lis­ten — “of the Hor­crux, wickedest of mag­ical in­ven­tions, we shall not speak nor give di­rec­tion” … 1 mean, why men­tion it, then?’ she said im­pa­tient­ly, slam­ming the old book shut; it let out a ghost­ly wail. ‘Oh, shut up,’ she snapped, stuff­ing it back in­to her bag. ‘I asked whether you know any­thing about Hor­crux­es, sir. You see -

‘Dum­ble­dore put you up to this,’ whis­pered Slughorn,

His voice had changed com­plete­ly. It was not ge­nial any more, but shocked, ter­ri­fied. He fum­bled in his breast pock­et and pulled out a hand­ker­chief, mop­ping his sweat­ing brow.

‘Dum­ble­dore’s shown you that — that mem­ory,’ said Slughorn. ‘Well? Hasn’t he?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, de­cid­ing on the spot that it was best not to lie.

‘Yes, of course,’ said Slughorn qui­et­ly, still dab­bing at his white face. ‘Of course … well, if you’ve seen that mem­ory, Har­ry, you’ll know that I don’t know any­thing - any­thing -he re­peat­ed the word force­ful­ly ‘- about Hor­crux­es.’

He seized his drag­on­skin brief­case, stuffed his hand­ker­chief back in­to his pock­et and marched to the dun­geon door.

‘Sir,’ said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, ‘1 just thought there might be a

‘Did you?’ said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren’t you? WRONG!’

He bel­lowed the last word and, be­fore Har­ry could say an­oth­er word, slammed the dun­geon door be­hind him.

Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view. Hermione was still seething at the way Har­ry had tri­umphed with­out do­ing the work prop­er­ly. Ron was re­sent­ful that Har­ry hadn’t slipped him a be­zoar, too.

‘It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!’ said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. ‘Look, 1 had to try and soft­en him up so 1 could ask him about Volde­mort, didn’t I? Oh, will you get a grip!’ he added in ex­as­per­ation, as Ron winced at the sound of

In­fu­ri­at­ed by his fail­ure and by Ron and Hermione’s at­ti-

tudes, Har­ry brood­ed for the next few days over what to do next about Slughorn. He de­cid­ed that, for the time be­ing, he would let Slughorn think that he had for­got­ten all about Hor­crux­es; it was sure­ly best to lull him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack.

When Har­ry did not ques­tion Slughorn again, the Po­tions mas­ter re­vert­ed to his usu­al af­fec­tion­ate treat­ment of him, and ap­peared to have put the mat­ter from his mind. Har­ry await­ed an in­vi­ta­tion to one of his lit­tle evening par­ties, de­ter­mined to ac­cept this time, even if he had to resched­ule Quid­ditch prac­tice. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, how­ev­er, no such in­vi­ta­tion ar­rived. Har­ry checked with Hermione and Gin­ny: nei­ther of them had re­ceived an in­vi­ta­tion and nor, as far as they knew, had any­body else. Har­ry could not help won­der­ing whether this meant that Slughorn was not quite as for­get­ful as he ap­peared, sim­ply de­ter­mined to give Har­ry no ad­di­tion­al op­por­tu­ni­ties to ques­tion him.

Mean­while, the Hog­warts li­brary had failed Hermione for the first time in liv­ing mem­ory. She was so shocked, she even for­got that she was an­noyed at Har­ry for his trick with the be­zoar.

‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do!’ she told him. ‘Not a sin­gle one! I’ve been right through the re­strict­ed sec­tion and even in the most hor­ri­ble books, where they tell you how to brew the most grue­some po­tions -noth­ing! All I could find was this, in the in­tro­duc­tion to Mag­ick Moste Evile - lis­ten - “of the Hor­crux, wickedest of mag­ical in­ven­tions, we shall not speak nor give di­rec­tion” … I mean, why men­tion it, then?’ she said im­pa­tient­ly, slam­ming the old book shut; it let out a ghost­ly wail. ‘Oh, shut up,’ she snapped, stuff­ing it back in­to her bag.

The snow melt­ed around the school as Febru­ary ar­rived, to be re­placed by cold, drea­ry wet­ness. Pur­plish­grey clouds hung low over the cas­tle and a con­stant fall of chilly rain made the lawns slip­pery and mud­dy. The up­shot of this was that the six­thyears’ first Ap­pari­tion les­son, which was sched­uled for a Sat­ur­day morn­ing so that no nor­mal lessons would be missed, took place in the Great Hall in­stead of in the grounds.

When Har­ry and Hermione ar­rived in the Hall (Ron had come down with Laven­der) they found that the ta­bles had dis­ap­peared. Rain lashed against the high win­dows and the en­chant­ed ceil­ing swirled dark­ly above them as they as­sem­bled in front of Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Snape, Flitwick and Sprout - the Heads of House - and a small wiz­ard whom Har­ry took to be the Ap­pari­tion In­struc­tor from the Min­istry. He was odd­ly colour­less, with trans­par­ent eye­lash­es, wispy hair and an in­sub­stan­tial air, as though a sin­gle gust of wind might blow him away. Har­ry won­dered whether con­stant dis­ap­pear­an­ces and reap­pear­an­ces had some­how di­min­ished his sub­stance, or whether this frail build was ide­al for any­one wish­ing to van­ish.

‘Good morn­ing,’ said the Min­istry wiz­ard, when all the stu­dents had ar­rived and the Heads of House had called for qui­et. ‘My name is Wilkie Twycross and I shall be your Min­istryAp­pari­tion In­struc­tor for the next twelve weeks. 1 hope to be able to pre­pare you for your Ap­pari­tion test in this time -’

‘Mal­foy, be qui­et and pay at­ten­tion!’ barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Ev­ery­body looked round. Mal­foy had flushed a dull pink; he looked fu­ri­ous as he stepped away from Crabbe, with whom he ap­peared to have been hav­ing a whis­pered ar­gu­ment. Har­ry glanced quick­ly at Snape, who al­so looked an­noyed, though Har­ry strong­ly sus­pect­ed that this was less be­cause of Mal­foy’s rude­ness than the fact that McG­ona­gall had rep­ri­mand­ed one of his house.

‘- by which time, many of you may be ready to take your test,’ Twycross con­tin­ued, as though there had been no in­ter­rup­tion.

‘As you may know, it is usu­al­ly im­pos­si­ble to Ap­pa­rate or Dis­ap­pa­rate with­in Hog­warts. The Head­mas­ter has lift­ed this en­chant­ment, pure­ly with­in the Great Hall, for one hour, so as to en­able you to prac­tise. May I em­pha­sise that you will not be able to Ap­pa­rate out­side the walls of this Hall, and that you would be un­wise to try.

‘I would like each of you to place your­selves now so that you have a clear five feet of space in front of you.’

There was a great scram­bi­ing and jostling as peo­ple sep­ar­at­ed, banged in­to each oth­er, and or­dered oth­ers out of their space. The Heads of House moved among the stu­dents, mar­shalling them in­to po­si­tion and break­ing up ar­gu­ments.

‘Har­ry, where are you go­ing? 1 de­mand­ed Hermione.

But Har­ry did not an­swer; he was mov­ing quick­ly through the crowd, past the place where Pro­fes­sor Flitwick was mak­ing squeaky at­tempts to po­si­tion a few Raven­claws, all of whom want­ed to be near the front, past Pro­fes­sor Sprout, who was chivvy­ing the Huf­flepuffs in­to line, un­til, by dodg­ing around Ernie Macmil­lan, he man­aged to po­si­tion him­self right at the back of the crowd, di­rect­ly be­hind Mal­foy, who was tak­ing ad­van­tage of the gen­er­al up­heaval to con­tin­ue his ar­gu­ment with Crabbe, stand­ing five feet away and look­ing mu­ti­nous.

‘I don’t know how much longer, all right?’ Mal­foy shot at him, obliv­ious to Har­ry stand­ing right be­hind him. ‘It’s tak­ing longer than I thought it would.’

Crabbe opened his mouth, but Mal­foy ap­peared to sec­ondguess what he was go­ing to say.

‘Look, it’s none of your busi­ness what I’m do­ing, Crabbe, you and Goyle just do as you’re told and keep a look­out!’

‘! tell my friends what I’m up to, if I want them to keep a look­out for me,” Har­ry said, just loud enough for Mal­foy to hear him.

Mal­foy spun round on the spot, his hand fly­ing to his wand, but at thai pre­cise mo­ment the four Heads of House shout­ed, ‘Qui­et!’ and si­lence fell again. Mal­foy turned slow­ly to face the front.

Thank you,’ said Twycross. :Now then …’

He waved his wand. Old­fash­ioned wood­en hoops in­stant­ly ap­peared on the floor in from of ev­ery stu­dent.

The im­por­tant things to re­mem­ber when Ap­pa­rat­ing are the three Ds!’ said Twycross. ‘Des­ti­na­tion, De­ter­mi­na­tion, De­lib­er­ation!

‘Step one: fix your mind firm­ly up­on the de­sired des­tin­ation,’ said Twycross. ‘In this case, the in­te­ri­or of your hoop. Kind­ly con­cen­trate up­on that des­ti­na­tion now.’

Ev­ery­body looked around furtive­ly, to check that ev­ery­one else was star­ing in­to their hoop, then hasti­ly did as they were told. Har­ry gazed at the cir­cu­lar patch of dusty floor en­closed by his hoop and tried hard to think of noth­ing else. This proved im­pos­si­ble, as he couldn’t stop puz­zling over what Mal­foy was do­ing that need­ed look­outs.

“Step two,’ said Twycross, ‘fo­cus your de­ter­mi­na­tion to oc­cu­py the vi­su­alised space! Let your yearn­ing to en­ter it flood from your mind to ev­ery par­ti­cle of your body!’

Har­ry glanced around sur­rep­ti­tious­ly. A lit­tle way to his left, Ernie Macmil­lan was con­tem­plat­ing his hoop so hard that his face had turned pink; it looked as though he was strain­ing to lay a Quaf­fle­sized egg. Har­ry bit back a laugh and hasti­ly re­turned his gaze to his own hoop.

‘Step three,’ called Twycross, ‘and on­ly when 1 give the com­mand … lum on the spot, feei­ing your way in­to noth­ing­ness, mov­ing with de­lib­er­ation 1. On my com­mand, now … one- 1

Har­ry glanced around again; lots of peo­ple were look­ing pos­itive­ly alarmed at be­ing asked to Ap­pa­rate so quick­ly.

Har­ry tried to fix his thoughts on his hoop again; he had al­ready for­got­ten what the three Ds stood for.

: - THREE!’

Har­ry spun on the spot, lost his bal­an­ce and near­ly fell over. He was not the on­ly one. The whole Hall was sud­den­ly full of stag­ger­ing peo­ple; Neville was flat on his back; Ernie Macmil­lan, on the oth­er hand, had done a kind of pirou­et­ting leap in­to his hoop and looked mo­men­tar­ily thrilled, un­til he caught sight of Dean Thomas roar­ing with laugh­ter at him.

‘Nev­er mind, nev­er mind,’ said Twycross dry­ly, who did not seem to have ex­pect­ed any­thing bet­ter. ‘Ad­just your hoops, please, and back to your orig­in­al po­si­tions …’

The sec­ond atlem.pt was no bet­ter than the first. The third was just as bad. Not un­til the fourth did any­thing ex­cit­ing hap­pen. There was a hor­ri­ble screech of pain and ev­ery­body looked around, ter­ri­fied, to see Su­san Bones of Huf­flepuff wob­bling in her hoop with her left leg still stand­ing five feet away where she had start­ed.

The Heads of House con­verged on her; there was a great bang and a puff of pur­ple smoke, which cleared to re­veal Su­san sob­bing, re­unit­ed with her leg but look­ing hor­ri­fied.

‘Sph’nch­ing, or the sep­ara­tion of ran­dom body parts,’ said Wilkie Twycross dis­pas­sion­ate­ly, ‘oc­curs when the mind is in­suf­fi­cient­ly de­ter­mined. You must con­cen­trate con­tin­ual­ly up­on your des­ti­na­tion, and move, with­out hasie, but with de­lib­er­ation … thus.’

Twycross stepped for­wards, turned grace­ful­ly on the spot with his arms out­stretched and van­ished in a swirl of robes, reap­pear­ing at the back of the Hall. ‘Re­mem­ber the three Ds,’ he said, ‘and try again … one -two - three -’

But an hour lat­er, Su­san’s Splinch­ing was still ihe most in­ter­est­ing thing that had hap­pened. Twycross did not seem dis­cour­aged. Fas­ten­ing his cloak at his neck, he mere­ly said, ‘Un­til next Sat­ur­day, ev­ery­body, and do not for­get: Des­tin­ation. De­ter­mi­na­tion. De­lib­er­ation.’

With that, he waved his wand, Van­ish­ing the hoops, and walked out of the Hall ac­com­pa­nied by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. Talk broke out at once as peo­ple be­gan mov­ing to­wards the En­trance Hall.

‘How did you do?’ asked Ron, hur­ry­ing to­wards Har­ry. ‘1 think 1 felt some­thing the last time I tried - a kind of tin­gling in my feet.’

‘1 ex­pect your train­ers are too small, Won­Won,’ said a voice be­hind them, and Hermione stalked past, smirk­ing.

‘1 didn’t feel any­thing,’ said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing this in­ter­rup­tion. “But 1 don’t care about that now-’

‘What d’you mean, you don’t care … don’t you want to leam to Ap­pa­rate?’ said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

‘I’m not fussed, re­al­ly. I pre­fer fly­ing,’ said Har­ry, glanc­ing over his shoul­der to see where Mal­foy was, and speed­ing up as they came in­to the En­trance Hall. ‘Look, hur­ry up, will you, there’s some­thing I want to do …’

Per­plexed, Ron fol­lowed Har­ry back to Gryffind­or Tow­er at a run. They were tem­po­rar­ily de­tained by Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth floor shut and was re­fus­ing to let any­one pass un­til they set fire to their own pants, but Har­ry and Ron sim­ply turned back and took one of their trust­ed short cuts. With­in five min­utes, they were climb­ing through the por­trait hole.

‘Are you go­ing to tell me what we’re do­ing, then?’ asked Ron, pant­ing slight­ly.

‘Up here,’ said Har­ry, and he crossed the com­mon room and led the way through the door to the boys’ stair­case.

Their dor­mi­to­ry was, as Ham’ had hoped, emp­ty. He flung open his trunk and be­gan to rum­mage in it, while Ron watched im­pa­tient­ly.

‘Har­ry …’

‘Mal­foy’s us­ing Crabbe and Goyle as look­outs. He was ar­gu­ing with Crabbe just now. 1 want to know … aha.’

He had found it, a fold­ed square of ap­par­ent­ly blank parch­ment, which he now smoothed out and tapped with [he tip of his wand.

‘I solemn!)’ swear that I am up to no good … or Mal­foy is,

At once, the Ma­raud­er’s Map ap­peared on the parch­ment’s sur­face. Here was a de­tailed plan of ev­ery one of the cas­tle’s floors and, mov­ing around it, the tiny, la­belled black dots that sig­ni­fied each of the cas­tle’s oc­cu­pants.

‘Help me find Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry ur­gent­ly.

He laid the map up­on his bed and he and Ron leaned over it, search­ing.

‘There!’ said Ron, af­ter a minute or so. ‘He’s in the Slytherin com­mon room, look … with Parkin­son and Zabi­ni and Crabbe and Goyle …”

Har­ry looked down at the map, dis­ap­point­ed, but ral­lied al­most at once.

‘Well, I’m keep­ing an eye on him from now on,’ he said firm­ly. ‘And the mo­ment 1 see him lurk­ing some­where with Crabbe and Goyle keep­ing watch out­side, it’ll be on with the old In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and off to find out what he’s-’

He broke off as Neville en­tered the dor­mi­to­ry, bring­ing with him a strong smell of singed ma­te­ri­al, and be­gan rum­mag­ing in his trunk for a fresh pair of pants.

De­spite his de­ter­mi­na­tion 10 catch Mal­foy out, Har­ry had no luck at all over the next cou­ple of weeks. Al­though he con­sult­ed the map as of­ten as he could, some­times mak­ing un­nec­es­sary vis­its to the bath­room be­tween lessons to search it, he did not once see Mal­foy any­where sus­pi­cious. Ad­mit­ted­ly, he spot­ted Crabbe and Goyle mov­ing around the cas­tle on their own more of­ten than usu­al, some­times re­main­ing sta­tion­ary in de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors, but at these times Mal­foy was not on­ly nowhere near them, but im­pos­si­ble to lo­cate on the map at all. This was most mys­te­ri­ous. Har­ry toyed with the pos­si­bil­ity that Mal­foy was ac­tu­al­ly leav­ing the school grounds, but could not see how he could be do­ing it, giv­en the very high leve! of se­cu­ri­ty now op­er­at­ing with­in the cas­tle. He could on­ly sup­pose ihat he was miss­ing Mal­foy amongst the hun­dreds of tiny black dots up­on the map. As for the fact that Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle ap­peared to be go­ing their dif­fer­ent ways when they were usu­al­ly in­sep­ara­ble, these things hap­pened as peo­ple got old­er - Ron and Hermione, Har­ry re­flect­ed sad­ly, were liv­ing proof.

Febru­ary moved to­wards March with no change in the weath­er ex­cept that it be­came windy as well as wet. To gen­er­al in­dig­na­tion, a sign went up on all com­mon­room no­tice­boards that the next trip in­to Hogsmeade had been can­celled. Ron was fu­ri­ous.

‘It was on my birth­day!’ he said, ‘i was look­ing for­ward to that!’

‘Not a big sur­prise, though, is it?’ said Har­ry. ‘Not af­ter what hap­pened to Katie.’

She had still not re­turned from Si Mun­go’s. What was more, fur­ther dis­ap­pear­an­ces had been re­port­ed in the Dai­ly Prophet, in­clud­ing sev­er­al rel­atives of stu­dents at Hog­warts.

‘But now all I’ve got to look for­ward to is stupid Ap­par­ition!’ said Ron grumpi­ly. ‘Big birth­day treat …’

Three lessons on, Ap­pari­tion was prov­ing as dif­fi­cult as

ev­er, though a few more peo­ple had man­aged to Splinch them­selves. Frus­tra­tion was run­ning high and there was a cer­tain amount of illfeel­ing to­wards Wilkie Twycross and his three Ds, which had in­spired a num­ber of nick­names for him, the po­litest of which were Dog­breath and Dung­head.

‘Hap­py birth­day, Ron,’ said Har­ry, when they were wo­ken on the first of March by Sea­mus and Dean leav­ing nois­ily for break­fast. ‘Have a present.’

He threw the pack­age across on to Ron’s bed, where it joined a small pile of them that must, Har­ry as­sumed, have been de­liv­ered by house­elves in the night.

‘Cheers,’ said Ron drowsi­ly, and as he ripped off the pa­per Har­ry got out of bed, opened his own crunk and be­gan rum­mag­ing in it for the Ma­raud­er’s Map, which he hid af­ter ev­ery use. He turfed out half the con­tents of his trunk be­fore he found it hid­ing be­neath the rolledup socks in which he was still keep­ing his bot­tle of lucky po­tion, Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

‘Right,’ he mur­mured, tak­ing it back to bed with him, tap­ping it qui­et­ly and mur­mur­ing, ‘I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good,’ so that Neville, who was pass­ing the foot of his bed at the time, would not hear.

‘Nice one, Har­ry!’ said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, wav­ing the new pair of Quid­ditch Keep­er’s gloves Har­ry had giv­en him.

‘No prob­lem,’ said Har­ry ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, as he searched the Slytherin dor­mi­to­ry close­ly for Mal­foy. ‘Hey … I don’t think he’s in his bed …’

Ron did not an­swer; he was too busy un­wrap­ping presents, ev­ery now and then let­ting out an ex­cla­ma­tion of plea­sure.

‘Se­ri­ous­ly good haul this year!’ he an­nounced, hold­ing up a heavy gold watch with odd sym­bols around the edge and tiny mov­ing stars in­stead of hands. ‘See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think I’ll come of age next year too …

‘Cool,’ mut­tered Har­ry, spar­ing the watch a glance be­fore peer­ing more close­ly at the map. Where was Mal­foy? He did not seem to be at the Slytherin ta­ble in the Great Hall, eat­ing break­fast … he was nowhere near Snape, who was sit­ting in his study … he wasn’t in any of the bath­rooms or in the hos­pi­tal wing …

‘Want one? 1 said Ron thick­ly, hold­ing out a box of Choco­late Caul­drons.

‘No thanks,’ said Har­ry, look­ing up. ‘Mal­foy’s gone again!’

‘Can’t have done,’ said Ron, stuff­ing a sec­ond Caul­dron in­to his mouth as he slid out of bed to get dressed. ‘Come on. if you don’t hur­ry up you’ll have to Ap­pa­rate on an emp­tys­tom­ach … might make it eas­ier, 1 sup­pose …”

Ron looked thought­ful­ly ai the box of Choco­late Caul­drons, then shrugged and helped him­self to a third.

Har­ry tapped the map with his wand, mut­tered, ‘Mis­chief man­aged,’ though it hadn’t been, and got dressed, think­ing hard. There had to be an ex­pla­na­tion for Mal­foy’s pe­ri­od­ic dis­ap­pear­an­ces, but he sim­ply could not think what it could be. The best way of find­ing out would be to tail him, bur even with the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak this was an im­prac­ti­cal idea; he had lessons, Quid­ditch prac­tice, home­work and Ap­pari­tion; he could not fol­low Mal­foy around school all day wil­hout his ab­sence be­ing re­marked up­on,

‘Ready?’ he said to Ron.

He was halfway to the dor­mi­to­ry door when he re­alised that Ron had not moved, but was lean­ing on his bed­post, star­ing out of the rain­washed win­dow with a strange­ly un­fo­cused look on his face.

‘Ron? Break­fast.’

‘I’m not hun­gry,’

Har­ry stared ai him.

‘I thought you just said -?’

-Well, all right, I’ll come down with you,’ sighed Ron, ‘but I don’t want to eat.’

Har­ry scru­ti­nised him sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘You’ve just eat­en half a box of Choco­late Caul­drons, haven’t you?’

‘It’s not that,’ Ron sighed again. ‘You … you wouldn’t un­der­stand.’

‘Fair enough,’ said Har­ry, al­beit puz­zled, as he turned to open the door.

‘Har­ry!’ said Ron sud­den­ly.

‘What?’

‘Har­ry, I can’t stand it!’

‘You can’t stand what?’ asked Har­ry, now star­ling to feel def­inite­ly alarmed. Ron was rather pale and looked as though he was about to be sick.

‘I can’t stop think­ing about her!’ said Ron hoarse­ly.

Har­ry gaped at him. He had not ex­pect­ed this and was not sure he want­ed to hear it. Friends they might be, but if Ron start­ed call­ing Laven­der ‘LavLav’, he would have to pui his foot down.

‘Why does that stop you hav­ing break­fast?’ Har­ry asked, try­ing to in­ject a note of com­mon sense in­to the pro­ceed­in­gs.

‘I don’t think she knows I ex­ist,’ said Ron with a des­per­ate ges­ture.

‘She def­inite­ly knows you ex­ist,’ said Har­ry, be­wil­dered. ‘She keeps snog­ging you, doesn’t she?’

Ron blinked.

‘Who are you talk­ing about?’

Who are you talk­ing about?’ said Har­ry, with an in­creas­ing sense that all rea­son had dropped out of the con­ver­sa­tion.

‘Romil­da Vane,’ said Ron soft­ly, and his whole face seemed to il­lu­mi­nate as he said it, as though hit by a ray of purest sun­light. They stared at each oth­er for al­most a whole minute, be­fore Har­ry said, ‘This is a joke, right? You’re jok­ing.’

T think … Har­ry, 1 ihink I love her,’ said Ron in a stran­gled voice.

‘OK,’ said Har­ry, walk­ing up to Ron 10 get a bet­ter look at the glazed eyes and the pal­lid com­plex­ion, ‘OK … say that again with a straight face.’

‘I love her,’ re­peat­ed Ron breath­less­ly. ‘Have you seen her hair, it’s all black and shiny and silky … and her eyes? Her big dark eyes? And her -’

‘This is re­al­ly fun­ny and ev­ery­thing,’ said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, ‘but joke’s over, all right? Drop it.’

He turned to leave; he had got two steps to­wards the door when a crash­ing blow hit him on the right ear. Stag­ger­ing, he looked round. Ron’s fist was drawn right back, his face was con­tort­ed with rage; he was about to strike again.

Har­ry re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly; his wand was out of his pock­et and the in­can­ta­tion sprang to mind with­out con­scious thought: Le\icor­pus!

Ron yelled as his heel was wrenched up­wards once more; he dan­gled help­less­ly, up­side­down, his robes hang­ing off him.

‘What was that for?’ Har­ry bel­lowed.

‘You in­sult­ed her, Har­ry! You said it was a joke!’ shout­ed Ron, who was slow­ly turn­ing pur­ple in the face as all the blood rushed to his head.

‘This is in­sane!’ said Har­ry. ‘What’s got in­to -?’

And then he saw the box ly­ing open on Ron’s bed and the truth hit him with the force of a stam­ped­ing troll.

‘Where did you get those Choco­late Caul­drons?’

‘They were a birth­day present!’ shout­ed Ron, re­volv­ing slow­ly in midair as he strug­gled to get free. ‘1 of­fered you one, didn’t 1?’

‘You just picked them up off the floor, didn’t you?’

‘They’d fall­en off my bed, all right? Let me go!’

‘They didn’t fall off your bed, you prat, don’t you un­der­stand? They were mine, 1 chucked them out of my trunk when 1 was look­ing for the map. They’re the Choco­late Caul­drons Romil­da gave me be­fore Christ­mas and they’re all spiked with love po­tion!’

But on­ly one word of this seemed to have reg­is­tered with Ron.

‘Romil­da?’ he re­peat­ed. ‘Did you say Romil­da? Har­ry - do you know her? Can you in­tro­duce me?’

Har­ry stared at the dan­gling Ron, whose face now looked tremen­dous­ly hope­ful, and fought a strong de­sire to laugh. A part of him - the part clos­est to his throb­bing right ear - was quite keen on the idea of let­ting Ron down and watch­ing him run amok un­til the ef­fects of the po­tion wore off … but on the oth­er hand, they were sup­posed to be friends, Ron had not been him­self when he had at­tacked, and Har­ry- thought that he would de­serve an­oth­er punch­ing if he per­mit­ted Ron to de­clare undy­ing love for Romil­da Vane.

‘Yeah, I’ll in­tro­duce you,’ said Har­ry, think­ing fast. ‘I’m go­ing to let you down now, OK?’

He sent Ron crash­ing back to the floor (his ear did hurt quite a lot), but Ron sim­ply bound­ed to his feet again, grin­ning.

‘She’ll be in Slughorn’s of­fice, 1 said Har­ry con­fi­dent­ly, lead­ing the way to the door.

‘Why will she be in there?’ asked Ron anx­ious­ly, hur­ry­ing to keep up.

‘Oh, she has ex­tra Po­tions lessons with him,’ said Har­ry, in­vent­ing wild­ly.

‘Maybe 1 could ask if 1 can have them with her?’ said Ron ea­ger­ly.

‘Great idea,’ said Har­ry. Laven­der was wait­ing be­side the por­trait hole, a com­pli­ca­tion Har­ry had not fore­seen.

‘You’re lace, Won­Won!’ she pout­ed. ‘I’ve got you a birth­day-’

‘Leave me alone,’ said Ron im­pa­tient­ly, ‘Har­ry’s go­ing to in­tro­duce me to Romil­da Vane.’

And with­out an­oth­er word to her, he pushed his way oui of the por­trait hole. Har­ry tried to make an apo­lo­get­ic face to Laven­der, but it might have turned out sim­ply amused, be­cause she looked more of­fend­ed than ev­er as the Fat La­dy swung shut be­hind them.

Har­ry had been slight­ly wor­ried that Slughorn might be at break­fast, but he an­swered his of­fice door at the first knock, wear­ing a green vel­vet dress­ing­gown and match­ing night­cap and look­ing rather blearyeyed.

‘Har­ry,’ he mum­bled. ‘This is very ear­ly for a call … I gen­er­al­ly sleep late on a Sat­ur­day …”

‘Pro­fes­sor, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry to dis­turb you,’ said Har­ry as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, while Ron stood on tip­toe, at­tempt­ing to see past Slughorn in­to his room, ‘but my friend Ron’s sw­al­lowed a love po­tion by mis­take. You couldn’t make him an an­ti­dote, could you? I’d take him to Madam Pom­frey, but we’re not sup­posed to have any­thing from Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Wheezes and, you know … awk­ward ques­tions …’

Td have thought you could have whipped him up a rem­edy, Har­ry, an ex­pert po­tion­eer like you?’ asked Slughorn. ‘Er,’ said Har­ry, some­what dis­tract­ed by the fact that Ron was now el­bow­ing him in the ribs in an at­tempt to force his way in­to the room, ‘well, I’ve nev­er mixed an an­ti­dote for a love po­tion, sir, and by the time I get it right Ron might’ve done some­thing se­ri­ous -’

Help­ful­ly, Ron chose this mo­ment to moan, ‘I can’t see her. Har­ry - is he hid­ing her?’

‘Was this po­tion with­in date?’ asked Slughorn, now eye­ing Ron with pro­fes­sion­al in­ter­est. ‘They can strength­en, you know, the longer they’re kept.’

That would ex­plain a lot,’ pant­ed Har­ry, now pos­itive­ly wrestling with Ron to keep him from knock­ing Slughorn over. ‘It’s his birth­day, Pro­fes­sor,’ he added im­plor­ing­ly.

‘Oh, all right, come in, then, come in,’ said Slughorn, re­lent­ing. ‘I’ve got the nec­es­sary here in my bag, it’s not a dif­fi­cult an­ti­dote …’

Ron burst through the door in­to Slughorn’s over­heat­ed, crowd­ed study, tripped over a tas­sell­ed foot­stool, re­gained his bal­an­ce by seiz­ing Har­ry around the neck and mut­tered, ‘She didn’t see that, did she?’

‘She’s not here yet,’ said Har­ry, watch­ing Slughorn open­ing his po­tion kit and adding a few pinch­es of this and that to a small crys­tal bot­tle.

That’s good,’ said Ron fer­vent­ly. ‘How do I look?’

‘Very hand­some,’ said Slughorn smooth­ly, hand­ing Ron a glass of clear liq­uid. ‘Now drink that up, it’s a ton­ic for the nerves, keep you calm when she ar­rives, you know,’

‘Bril­liant,’ said Ron ea­ger­ly, and he gulped the an­ti­dote down nois­ily.

Har­ry and Slughorn watched him. For a mo­ment, Ron beamed at them. Then, very slow­ly, his grin sagged and van­ished, to be re­placed by an ex­pres­sion of ut­most hor­ror.

‘Back to nor­mal, then?’ said Har­ry, grin­ning. Slughorn chuck­led. Thanks a lot, Pro­fes­sor.’

‘Don’t men­tion it, m’boy, don’t men­tion it,’ said Slughorn, as Ron col­lapsed in­to a near­by arm­chair, look­ing dev­as­tat­ed. ‘Pick­me­up, that’s what he needs,’ Slughorn con­tin­ued, now­bustling over to a ta­ble load­ed with drinks. ‘I’ve got But­ter­beer, I’ve got wine, I’ve got one last bot­tle of this oak­ma­tured mead … hmm … meant to give that to Dum­ble­dore for

Christ­mas … ah well …’ he shrugged ‘… he can’t miss what he’s nev­er had! Why don’t we open it now and cel­ebrate Mr Weasley’s birth­day? Noth­ing like a fine spir­it to chase away the pangs of dis­ap­point­ed love …’

He chor­tled again and Har­ry joined in. This was the fir­si time he had found him­self al­most alone with Slughorn since his dis­as­trous first at­tempt to ex­tract the true mem­ory from him. Per­haps, if he could just keep Slughorn in a good mood … per­haps if they got through enough of the oak­ma­tured mead …

There you are, then,’ said Slughorn, hand­ing Har­ry and Ron a glass of mead each, be­fore rais­ing his own. ‘Well, a very hap­py birth­day, Ralph -’

‘- Ron -’ whis­pered Har­ry.

But Ron, who did not ap­pear to be lis­ten­ing to the toast, had al­ready thrown the mead in­to his mouth and sw­al­lowed it.

There was one sec­ond, hard­ly more than a heart­beat, in which Har­ry knew there was some­thing ter­ri­bly wrong and Slughorn, it seemed, did not.

‘- and may you have many more -

‘Ron!’

Ron had dropped his glass; he hal­frose from his chair and then crum­pled, his ex­trem­ities jerk­ing un­con­trol­lably. Foam was drib­bling from his mouth and his eyes were bulging from their sock­ets.

‘Pro­fes­sor!’ Har­ry bel­lowed. ‘Do some­thing]’

But Slughorn seemed par­al­ysed by shock. Ron twitched and choked: his skin was turn­ing blue.

‘What - but -’ splut­tered Slughorn.

Har­ry leapt over a low ta­ble and sprint­ed to­wards Slughorn’s open po­tion kit, pulling out jars and pouch­es, while the ter­ri­ble sound of Ron’s gar­gling breath filled the room. Then

he found it - the shriv­elled kid­ney­like stone Slughorn had tak­en from him in Po­tions.

He hur­tled back to Ron’s side, wrenched open his jaw and thrust the be­zoar in­to his mouth. Ron gave a great shud­der, a rat­tling gasp and his body be­came limp and still.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 19: Elf Tails


So, all in all, not one of Ron’s bet­ter birth­days?” said Fred.

It was evening; the hos­pi­tal wing was qui­et, the win­dows cur­tained, the lamps lit. Ron’s was the on­ly oc­cu­pied bed. Har­ry, Hermione, and Gin­ny were sit­ting around him; they had spent all day wait­ing out­side the dou­ble doors, try­ing to see in­side when­ev­er some­body went in or out. Madam Pom­frey had on­ly let them en­ter at eight o’clock. Fred and George had ar­rived at ten past.

“This isn’t how we imag­in­ed hand­ing over our present,” said George grim­ly, putting down a large wrapped gift on Ron’s bed­side cab­in­et and sit­ting be­side Gin­ny.

“Yeah, when we pic­tured the scene, he was con­scious,” said Fred.

“There we were in Hogsmeade, wait­ing to sur­prise him —” said George.

“You were in Hogsmeade?” asked Gin­ny, look­ing up.

“We were think­ing of buy­ing Zonko’s,” said Fred gloo­mi­ly. “A Hogsmeade branch, you know, but a fat lot of good it’ll do us if you lot aren’t al­lowed out at week­ends to buy our stuff any­mon … But nev­er mind that now.”

He drew up a chair be­side Har­ry and looked at Ron’s pale face.

“How ex­act­ly did it hap­pen, Har­ry?”

Har­ry re­told the sto­ry he had al­ready re­count­ed, it felt like a hun­dred times to Dum­ble­dore, to McG­ona­gall, to Madam Pom­frey, to Hermione, and to Gin­ny.

“. . . and then I got the be­zoar down his throat and his breath­ing eased up a bit, Slughorn ran for help, McG­ona­gall and Madam Pom­frey turned up, and they brought Ron up here. They reck­on he’ll be all right. Madam Pom­frey says he’ll have to stay here a week or so … keep tak­ing essence of rue . . .”

“Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a be­zoar,” said George in a low voice.

“Lucky there was one in the room,” said Har­ry, who kept turn­ing cold at the thought of what would have hap­pened if he had not been able to lay hands on the lit­tle stone.

Hermione gave an al­most in­au­di­ble sniff. She had been ex­cep­tion­al­ly qui­et all day. Hav­ing hur­tled, white­faced, up to Har­ry out­side the hos­pi­tal wing and de­mand­ed to know what had hap­pened., she had tak­en al­most no part in Har­ry and Gin­ny’s ob­ses­sive dis­cus­sion about how Ron had been poi­soned, but mere­ly stood be­side them, clench­jawed and fright­ened­look­ing, un­til ai last they had been al­lowed in to see him.

“Do Mum and Dad know?” Fred asked Gin­ny. “They’ve al­ready seen him, they ar­rived an hour ago — they’re in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice now, but they’ll be back soon. . . .”

There was a pause while they all watched Ron mum­ble a lit­tle in his sleep.

“So the poi­son was in the drink?” said Fred qui­et­ly.

“Yes,” said Har­ry at once; he could think of noth­ing else and was glad for the op­por­tu­ni­ty to start dis­cussing it again. “Slughorn poured it out —”

“Would he have been able to slip some­thing in­to Ron’s glass with­out you see­ing?”

“Prob­ably,” said Har­ry, “but why would Slughorn want to poi­son Ron?”

“No idea,” said Fred, frown­ing. “You don’t think he could have mixed up the glass­es by mis­take? Mean­ing to get you?”

“Why would Slughorn want to poi­son Har­ry?” asked Gin­ny. “I dun­no,” said Fred, “but there must be loads of peo­ple who’d like to poi­son Har­ry, mustn’t there? ‘The Cho­sen One’ and all that?” “So you think Slughorn’s a Death Eater?” said Gin­ny. :,

“Any­thing’s pos­si­ble,” said Fred dark­ly. “He could be un­der the Im­perius Curse,” said George. “Or he could be in­no­cent,” said Gin­ny. “The poi­son could have been in the bot­tle, in which case it was prob­ably meant for Slughorn him­self.”

“Who’d want to kill Slughorn?”

“Dum­ble­dore reck­ons Volde­mort want­ed Slughorn on his side,” said Har­ry. “Slughorn was in hid­ing for a year be­fore he came to Hog­warts. And . . .” He thought of the mem­ory Dum­ble­dore had not yet been able to ex­tract from Slughorn. “And maybe Volde­mort wants him out of the way, maybe he thinks he could be valu­able to Dum­ble­dore.”

“But you said Slughorn had been plan­ning to give th.u Un­tie to Dum­ble­dore for Christ­mas,” Gin­ny re­mind­ed him. “So the poi­son­er could just as eas­ily have been af­ter Dum­ble­dore.”

“Then the poi­son­er didn’t know Slughorn very well,” said Hermione, speak­ing for the first time in hours and sound­ing as though she had a bad head cold. “Any­one who knew Slughorn would have I known there was a good chance he’d keep some­thing that tasty for him­self.” I

“Ermynee,” croaked Ron un­ex­pect­ed­ly from be­tween them

They all fell silent, watch­ing him anx­ious­ly, but af­ter mut­ter­ing in­com­pre­hen­si­bly for a mo­ment he mere­ly start­ed snor­ing.

The dor­mi­to­ry doors flew open, mak­ing them all jump: Ha­grid came strid­ing to­ward them, his hair rain­flecked, his bearskin coat flap­ping be­hind him, a cross­bow in his hand, leav­ing a trail of mud­dy dol­phin­sized foot­prints all over the floor.

“Bin in the for­est all day!” he pant­ed. “Ar­agog’s worse, I bin readin’ to him — didn’ get up ter din­ner till jus’ now an’ then Pro­fes­sor Sprout told me abou’ Ron! How is he?”

“Not bad,” said Har­ry. “They say he’ll be okay.”

“No more than six vis­itors at a time!” said Madam Pom­frey, hur­ry­ing out of her of­fice.

“Ha­grid makes six,” George point­ed out.

“Oh . . . yes. ..” said Madam Pom­frey, who seemed to have been count­ing Ha­grid as sev­er­al peo­ple due to his vast­ness. To cov­er her con­fu­sion, she hur­ried off to clear up his mud­dy foot prints with her wand.

“I don’ be­lieve this,” said Ha­grid hoarse­ly, shak­ing his great shag­gy head as he stared down at Ron. “Jus’ don’ be­lieve it… Look at him lyin’ there. . . . Who’d want ter hurt him, eh?”

“That’s just what we were dis­cussing,” said Har­ry. “We don’t know.”

“Some­one couldn’ have a grudge against the Gryfinndor Quid­ditch team, could they?” said Ha­grid anx­ious­ly. “Firs’ Katie, now Ron . . .”

“I cant see any­one try­ing to bump off a Quid­ditch team,” said

I m urge.

Wood might’ve done the Slytherins if he could’ve got away with it,” said Fred fair­ly.

Well, I don’t think it’s Quid­ditch, but I think there’s a con­nec­tion be­tween the at­tacks,” said Hermione qui­et­ly

“How d’you work that out?” asked Fred.

“Well, for one thing, they both ought to have been fa­tal and weren’t, al­though that was pure luck. And for an­oth­er, nei­ther the poi­son nor the neck­lace seems to have reached the per­son who was (sup­posed to be killed. Of course,” she added brood­ing­ly, “that makes the per­son be­hind this even more dan­ger­ous in a way, be­cause they don’t seem to care how many peo­ple they fin­ish off In lore they ac­tu­al­ly reach their vic­tim.”

Be­fore any­body could re­spond to this omi­nous pro­nounce­ment, tin- dor­mi­to­ry doors opened again and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley hur­ried up the ward. They had done no more than sat­is­fy them­selves that Ron would make a full re­cov­ery on their last vis­it to the ward; now Mrs. Weasley seized hold of Har­ry and hugged him very tighty. “Dum­ble­dore’s told us how you saved him with the be­zoar,” she sobbed. “Oh, Har­ry, what can we say? You saved Gin­ny . . . you saved Arthur , . . now you’ve saved Ron

“Don’t be … I didn’t. . .” mut­tered Har­ry awk­ward­ly. “Half our fam­ily does seem to owe you their lives, now I stop and think about it,” Mr. Weasley said in a con­strict­ed voice. “Well, all I can say is that it was a lucky clay for the Weasleys when Ron de­cid­ed to sit in your com­part­ment on the Hog­warts Ex­pirv., Har­ry.”

Har­ry could not think of any re­ply to this and was al­most gl.i«l when Madam Pom­frey re­mind­ed them that there were on­ly sup­posed to be six vis­itors around Ron’s bed; he and Hermione rose .h once to leave and Ha­grid de­cid­ed to go with them, leav­ing Ron with his fam­ily.

“It’s ter­ri­ble,” growled Ha­grid in­to his beard, as the three ol them walked back along the cor­ri­dor to the mar­ble stair­case. “Ml this new se­cu­ri­ty, an kids are still get­tin’ hurt. . . . Dum­ble­doiv’s wor­ried sick. . . . He don say much, but I can tell. . . .”

“Hasn’t he got any ideas, Ha­grid?” asked Hermione des­per­ate­ly.

“I spect he’s got hun­dreds of ideas, brain like his,” said Ha­grid. “But he doesn’ know who sent that neck­lace nor put poi­son in that wine, or they’dve bin caught, wouldn they? Wha’ wor­ries me,” said Ha­grid, low­er­ing his voice and glanc­ing over his shoul­der (Har­ry, for good mea­sure, checked the ceil­ing for Peeves), “is how long Hog­warts can stay open if kids are bein’ at­tacked. Cham­ber o’ Se­crets all over again, isn’ it? There’ll be pan­ic, more par­ents takin their kids out­ta school, an nex’ thing yeh know the board o’ gov­er­nors …”

Ha­grid stopped talk­ing as the ghost of a long­haired wom­an drift­ed serene­ly past, then re­sumed in a hoarse whis­per, “. . . the board o’ gov­er­nors’ll be talkin about shut­tin’ us up fer good.”

“Sure­ly not?” said Hermione, look­ing wor­ried.

“Got­ta see it from their point o’ view,” said Ha­grid heav­ily. “I mean, it’s al­ways bin a bit of a risk sendin a kid ter Hog­warts, hasn’ it? Yer ex­pect ac­ci­dents, don’ yeh, with hun­dreds of un­der­age wiz­ards all locked up ter­geth­er, but at­tempt­ed mur­der, tha’s tliff’rent. ‘S’no won­der Dum­ble­dore’s an­gry with Sn —”

Ha­grid stopped in his tracks, a fa­mil­iar, guilty ex­pres­sion on what was vis­ible of his face above his tan­gled black beard.

“What?” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Dum­ble­dore’s an­gry with Snape?”

“I nev­er said tha’,” said Ha­grid, though his look of pan­ic could not have been a big­ger give­away. “Look at the time, it’s get­tin’ on fer mid­night, I need ter —”

“Ha­grid, why is Dum­ble­dore an­gry with Snape?” Har­ry asked loud­ly.

“Shh­hh!” said Ha­grid, look­ing both ner­vous and an­gry. “Don’ shout stuff like that, Har­ry, d’yeh wan’ me ter lose me job? Mind, I don’ sup­pose yeh’d care, would yeh, not now yeh’ve giv­en up Care of Mag—”

“Don’t try and make me feel guilty, it wont work!” said Har­ry force­ful­ly. “What’s Snape done?”

“I dun­no, Har­ry, I shouldn’ta heard it at all! I — well, I was comin’ out­ta the for­est the oth­er evenin’ an’ I over­heard ‘em talk­ing— well, ar­guin’. Didn’t like ter draw at­ten­tion to me­self, so I sor­ta skulked an tried not ter lis­ten, but it was a — well, a heat­ed dis­cus­sion an’ it wasn’ easy ter block it out.”

“Well?” Har­ry urged him, as Ha­grid shuf­fled his enor­mous feet un­easi­ly.

“Well — I jus’ heard Snape sayin’ Dum­ble­dore took too much fer grant­ed an maybe he — Snape — didn’ wan’ ter do it any more —“

“Do what?”

“I dun­no, Har­ry, it sound­ed like Snape was feel­in’ a bit over­worked, tha’s all — any­way, Dum­ble­dore told him flat out he’d agreed ter do it an’ that was all there was to it. Pret­ty firm with him. An’ then he said sum­mat abou’ Snape makin’ in­ves­ti­ga­tions in his House, in Slytherin. Well, there’s noth­in’ strange abou’ that!” Ha­grid added hasti­ly, as Har­ry and Hermione ex­changed looks full of mean­ing. “All the Heads o’ Hous­es were asked ter look in­ter that neck­lace busi­ness —”

“Yeah, but Dum­ble­dore’s not hav­ing rows with the rest of them, is he?” said Har­ry.

“Look,” Ha­grid twist­ed his cross­bow un­com­fort­ably in his hands; there was a loud splin­ter­ing sound and it snapped in two. “I know what yeh’re like abou’ Snape, Har­ry, an’ I don’ want yeh ter go readin’ more in­ter this than there is.”

“Look out,” said Hermione terse­ly.

They turned just in time to see the shad­ow of Ar­gus Filch loom­ing over the wall be­hind them be­fore the man him­self turned the cor­ner, hunch­backed, his jowls aquiver.

“Oho!” he wheezed. “Out of bed so late, this’ll mean de­ten­tion!”

“No it won’, Filch,” said Ha­grid short­ly. “They’re with me, aren’ they?”

“And what dif­fer­ence does that make?” asked Filch ob­nox­ious­ly.

“I’m a rud­dy teach­er, aren’ I, yeh sneakin’ Squib!” said Ha­grid, fir­ing up at once.

There was a nasty hiss­ing noise as Filch swelled with fury; Mrs. Nor­ris had ar­rived, un­seen, and was twist­ing her­self sin­uous­ly around Filch’s skin­ny an­kles.

“Get goin,” said Ha­grid out of the cor­ner of his mouth.

Har­ry did not need telling twice; he and Hermione both hur­ried off; Ha­grid’s and Filch’s raised voic­es echoed be­hind them as they ran. They passed Peeves near the turn­ing in­to Gryffind­or Tow­er, but he was streak­ing hap­pi­ly to­ward the source of the yelling, cack­ling and call­ing,

When there’s strife and when there’s trou­ble

Call on Peevsie, he’ll make dou­ble!

The Fat La­dy was snooz­ing and not pleased to be wo­ken, but swung for­ward grumpi­ly to al­low them to clam­ber in­to the mer­ci­ful­ly peace­ful and emp­ty com­mon room. It did not seem that peo­ple knew about Ron yet; Har­ry was very re­lieved: He had been in­ter­ro­gat­ed enough that day. Hermione bade him good night and set off for the girls’ dor­mi­to­ry. Har­ry, how­ev­er, re­mained be­hind, tak­ing a seat be­side the fire and look­ing down in­to the dy­ing em­bers.

So Dum­ble­dore had ar­gued with Snape. In spite of all he had told Har­ry, in spite of his in­sis­tence that he trust­ed Snape com­plete­ly, he had lost his tem­per with him. . . . He did not think that Snape had tried hard enough to in­ves­ti­gate the Slytherins … or, per­haps, to in­ves­ti­gate a sin­gle Slytherin: Mal­foy?

Was it be­cause Dum­ble­dore did not want Har­ry to do any­thing fool­ish, to take mat­ters in­to his own hands, that he had pre­tend­ed there was noth­ing in Har­ry’s sus­pi­cions? That seemed like­ly. It , might even be that Dum­ble­dore did not want any­thing to dis­tract Har­ry from their lessons, or from procur­ing that mem­ory from Slughorn. Per­haps Dum­ble­dore did not think it right to con­fide sus­pi­cions about his staff to six­teenyearolds. …

“There you are, Pot­ter!”

Har­ry jumped to his feet in shock, his wand at the ready. He had been quite con­vinced that the com­mon room was emp­ty; he had not been at all pre­pared for a hulk­ing fig­ure to rise sud­den­ly out of a dis­tant chair. A clos­er look showed him that it was Cor­mac McLaggen.

“I’ve been wait­ing for you to come back,” said McLaggen, dis­re­gard­ing Har­ry’s drawn wand. “Must’ve fall­en asleep. Look, I saw them tak­ing Weasley up to the hos­pi­tal wing ear­li­er. Didn’t look like he’ll be fit for next week’s match.”

It took Har­ry a few mo­ments to re­al­ize what McLaggen was talk­ing about.

“Oh . . . right. . . Quid­ditch,” he said, putting his wand back in­to the belt of his jeans and run­ning a hand weari­ly through his hair. “Yeah … he might not make it.”

“Well, then, I’ll be play­ing Keep­er, won’t I?” said McLaggen.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Yeah, I sup­pose so. …”

He could not think of an ar­gu­ment against it; af­ter all, McLaggen had cer­tain­ly per­formed sec­ondbest in the tri­als.

“Ex­cel­lent,” said McLaggen in a sat­is­fied voice. “So when’s prac­tice?”

“What? Oh . . . there’s one to­mor­row evening.”

“Good. Lis­ten, Pot­ter, we should have a talk be­fore­hand. I’ve got some ideas on strat­egy you might find use­ful.”

“Right,” said Har­ry un­en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “Well, I’ll hear them to­mor­row, then. I’m pret­ty tired now … see you . . .”

The news that Ron had been poi­soned spread quick­ly next day, but it did not cause the sen­sa­tion that Katie’s at­tack had done. Peo­ple seemed to think that it might have been an ac­ci­dent, giv­en that he had been in the Po­tions mas­ter’s room at the time, and that as he had been giv­en an an­ti­dote im­me­di­ate­ly there was no re­al harm done. In fact, the Gryffind­ors were gen­er­al­ly much more in­ter­est­ed in the up­com­ing Quid­ditch match against Huf­flepuff, for many of them want­ed to see Zacharias Smith, who played Chas­er on the Huf­flepuff team, pun­ished sound­ly for his com­men­tary dur­ing the open­ing match against Slytherin.

Har­ry, how­ev­er, had nev­er been less in­ter­est­ed in Quid­ditch; he was rapid­ly be­com­ing ob­sessed with Dra­co Mal­foy. Still check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map when­ev­er he got a chance, he some­times made de­tours to wher­ev­er Mal­foy hap­pened to be, but had not yet de­tect­ed him do­ing any­thing out of the or­di­nary. And still there were those in­ex­pli­ca­ble times when Mal­foy sim­ply van­ished from the map. . . .

But Har­ry did not get a lot of time to con­sid­er the prob­lem, what with Quid­ditch prac­tice, home­work, and the fact that he was now be­ing dogged wher­ev­er he went by Cor­mac McLaggen and Laven­der Brown.

He could not de­cide which of them was more an­noy­ing. McLaggen kept up a con­stant stream of hints that he would make a bet­ter per­ma­nent Keep­er for the team than Ron, and that now that Har­ry was see­ing him play reg­ular­ly he would sure­ly come around to this way of think­ing too; he was al­so keen to crit­icize the oth­er play­ers and pro­vide Har­ry with de­tailed train­ing schemes, so that more than once Har­ry was forced to re­mind him who was Cap­tain.

Mean­while, Laven­der kept sidling up to Har­ry to dis­cuss Ron, which Har­ry found al­most more wear­ing than McLaggen’s Quid­ditch lec­tures. At first, Laven­der had been very an­noyed that no­body had thought to tell her that Ron was in the hos­pi­tal wing — “I mean, I am his girl­friend!” — but un­for­tu­nate­ly slith­ad now de­cid­ed to for­give Har­ry this lapse of mem­ory and was keen to have lots of in­depth chats with him about Ron’s feel­in­gs, a most un­com­fort­able ex­pe­ri­ence that Har­ry would have hap­pi­ly for­gone.

“Look, why don’t you talk to Ron about all this?” Har­ry asked, af­ter a par­tic­ular­ly long in­ter­ro­ga­tion from Laven­der that took in ev­ery­thing from pre­cise­ly what Ron had said about her new drew robes to whether or not Har­ry thought that Ron con­sid­ered his re­la­tion­ship with Laven­der to be “se­ri­ous.”

“Well, I would, but he’s al­ways asleep when I go and see him!” said Laven­der fret­ful­ly.

“Is he?” said Har­ry, sur­prised, for he had found Ron per­fect­ly alert ev­ery time he had been up to the hos­pi­tal wing, both high­ly in­ter­est­ed in the news of Dum­ble­dore and Snape’s row and keen m abuse McLaggen as much as pos­si­ble.

“Is Hermione Granger still vis­it­ing him?” Laven­der de­mand­ed sud­den­ly.

“Yeah, I think so. Well, they’re friends, aren’t they?” said Har­ry un­com­fort­ably.

“Friends, don’t make me laugh,” said Laven­der scorn­ful­ly. “She didn’t talk to him for weeks af­ter he start­ed go­ing out with me! But I sup­pose she wants to make up with him now he’s all in­ter­est­ing. …”

“Would you call get­ting poi­soned be­ing in­ter­est­ing?” asked Har­ry. “Any­way — sor­ry, got to go — there’s McLaggen com­ing for a talk about Quid­ditch,” said Har­ry hur­ried­ly, and he dashed side­ways through a door pre­tend­ing to be sol­id wall and sprint­ed down the short­cut that would take him off to Po­tions where, thank­ful­ly, nei­ther Laven­der nor McLaggen could fol­low him.

On the morn­ing of the Quid­ditch match against Huf­flepuff, Har­ry dropped in on the hos­pi­tal wing be­fore head­ing down to the pitch. Ron was very ag­itat­ed; Madam Pom­frey would not let him go down to watch the match, feel­ing it would overex­cite him.

“So how’s McLaggen shap­ing up?” he asked Har­ry ner­vous­ly, ap­par­ent­ly for­get­ting that he had al­ready asked the same ques­tion twice.

“I’ve told you,” said Har­ry pa­tient­ly, “he could be world­class and I wouldn’t want to keep him. He keeps try­ing to tell ev­ery­one what to do, he thinks he could play ev­ery po­si­tion bet­ter than the rest of us. I can’t wait to be shot of him. And speak­ing of get­ting shot of peo­ple,” Har­ry added, get­ting to his feet and pick­ing up his Fire­bolt, “will you stop pre­tend­ing to be asleep when Laven­der comes to see you? She’s driv­ing me mad as well.”

“Oh,” said Ron, look­ing sheep­ish. “Yeah. All right.”

“If you don’t want to go out with her any­more, just tell her,” said Har­ry.

“Yeah . . . well. . . it’s not that easy, is it?” said Ron. He paused. “Hermione go­ing to look in be­fore the match?” he added ca­su­al­ly.

“No, she’s al­ready gone down to the pitch with Gin­ny.”

“Oh,” said Ron, look­ing rather glum. “Right. Well, good luck. Hope you ham­mer McLag — I mean, Smith.”

“I’ll try,” said Har­ry, shoul­der­ing his broom. “See you af­ter the match.”

He hur­ried down through the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dors; the whole school was out­side, ei­ther al­ready seat­ed in the sta­di­um or head­ing down to­ward it. He was look­ing out of the win­dows he passed, try­ing to gauge how much wind they were fac­ing, when a noise ahead made him glance up and he saw Mal­foy walk­ing to­ward him, ac­com­pa­nied by two girls, both of whom looked sulky and re­sent­ful.

Mal­foy stopped short at the sight of Har­ry, then gave a short, hu­mor­less laugh and con­tin­ued walk­ing.

“Where’re you go­ing?” Har­ry de­mand­ed.

“Yeah, I’m re­al­ly go­ing to tell you, be­cause it’s your busi­ness, Pot­ter,” sneered Mal­foy. “You’d bet­ter hur­ry up, they’ll be wait­ing for ‘the Cho­sen Cap­tain’ — ‘the Boy Who Scored’ — what­ev­er they call you these days.”

One of the girls gave an un­will­ing gig­gle. Har­ry stared at her. She blushed. Mal­foy pushed past Har­ry and she and her friend fol­lowed at a trot, turn­ing the cor­ner and van­ish­ing from view.

Har­ry stood root­ed on the spot and watched them dis­ap­pear. This was in­fu­ri­at­ing; he was al­ready cut­ting it fine to get to the match on time and yet there was Mal­foy, skulk­ing off while the rest of the school was ab­sent: Har­ry’s best chance yet of dis­cov­er­ing what Mal­foy was up to. The silent sec­onds trick­led past, and Har­ry re­mained where he was, frozen, gaz­ing at the place where Mal­foy had van­ished. . . .

“Where have you been?” de­mand­ed Gin­ny, as Har­ry sprint­ed in­to the chang­ing rooms. The whole team was changed and ready; Coote and Peakes, the Beat­ers, were both hit­ting their clubs ner­vous­ly against their legs.

“I met Mal­foy,” Har­ry told her qui­et­ly, as he pulled his scar­let robes over his head.

“So I want­ed to know how come he’s up at the cas­tle with a cou­ple of girl­friends while ev­ery­one else is down here. …”

“Does it mat­ter right now?”

“Well, I’m not like­ly to find out, am I?” said Har­ry, seiz­ing his Fire­bolt and push­ing his glass­es straight. “Come on then!”

And with­out an­oth­er word, he marched out on­to the pitch to deaf­en­ing cheers and boos.

There was lit­tle wind; the clouds were patchy; ev­ery now and then there were daz­zling flash­es of bright sun­light.

“Tricky con­di­tions!” McLaggen said brac­ing­ly to the team. “Coote, Peakes, you’ll want to fly out of the sun, so they don’t see you com­ing —”

“I’m the Cap­tain, McLaggen, shut up giv­ing them in­struc­tions,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. “Just get up by the goal posts!”

Once McLaggen had marched off, Har­ry turned to Coote and Peakes.

“Make sure you do fly out of the sun,” he told them grudg­ing­ly.

He shook hands with the Huf­flepuff Cap­tain, and then, on Madam Hooch’s whis­tle, kicked off and rose in­to the air, high­er than the rest of his team, streak­ing around the pitch in search of the Snitch. If he could catch it good and ear­ly, there might be a chance he could get back up to the cas­tle, seize the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and find out what Mal­foy was do­ing. . . .

“And that’s Smith of Huf­flepuff with the Quaf­fle,” said a dreamy voice, echo­ing over the grounds. “He did the com­men­tary last time, of course, and Gin­ny Weasley flew in­to him, I think prob­ably on pur­pose, it looked like it. Smith was be­ing quite rude about Gryffind­or, I ex­pect he re­grets that now he’s play­ing them — oh, look, he’s lost the Quaf­fle, Gin­ny took it from him, I do like her, she’s very nice. …”

Har­ry stared down at the com­men­ta­tor’s po­di­um. Sure­ly no­body in their right mind would have let Lu­na Love­good com­men­tate? But even from above there was no mis­tak­ing that long, dirty­blonde hair, nor the neck­lace of but­ter­beer corks. . . . Be­side Lu­na, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was look­ing slight­ly un­com­fort­able, as though she was in­deed hav­ing sec­ond thoughts about this ap­point­ment.

“. . . but now that big Huf­flepuff play­er’s got the Quaf­fle from , her, I can’t re­mem­ber his name, it’s some­thing like Bib­ble — no, Bug­gins —”

“It’s Cad­wal­lad­er!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall loud­ly from be­side Lu­na. The crowd laughed.

Har­ry stared around for the Snitch; there was no sign of it. Mo­ments lat­er, Cad­wal­lad­er scored. McLaggen had been shout­ing crit­icism at Gin­ny for al­low­ing the Quaf­fle out of her pos­ses­sion, with the re­sult that he had not no­ticed the large red ball soar­ing past his right ear.

“McLaggen, will you pay at­ten­tion to what you’re sup­posed to be do­ing and leave ev­ery­one else alone!” bel­lowed Har­ry, wheel­ing around to face his Keep­er.

“You’re not set­ting a great ex­am­ple!” McLaggen shout­ed back, red­faced and fu­ri­ous.

“And Har­ry Pot­ter’s now hav­ing an ar­gu­ment with his Keep­er,” said Lu­na serene­ly, while both Huf­flepuffs and Slytherins be­low in the crowd cheered and jeered. “I don’t think that’ll help him find the Snitch, but maybe it’s a clever ruse. …”

Swear­ing an­gri­ly, Har­ry spun round and set off around the pitch again, scan­ning the skies for some sign of the tiny, winged gold­en ball.

Gin­ny and Demelza scored a goal apiece, giv­ing the redand­gold­clad sup­port­ers be­low some­thing to cheer about. Then Cad­wal­lad­er scored again, mak­ing things lev­el, but Lu­na did not seem to have no­ticed; she ap­peared sin­gu­lar­ly un­in­ter­est­ed in such mun­dane things as the score, and kept at­tempt­ing to draw the crowd’s at­ten­tion to such things as in­ter­est­ing­ly shaped clouds and the pos­si­bil­ity that Zacharias Smith, who had so far failed to main­tain pos­ses­sion of the Quaf­fle for longer than a minute, was suf­fer­ing from some­thing called “Los­er’s Lur­gy.”

“Sev­en­ty­forty to Huf­flepuff!” barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in­to Lu­na’s mega­phone.

“Is it, al­ready?” said Lu­na vague­ly. “Oh, look! The Gryffind­or Keep­er’s got hold of one of the Beat­er’s bats.”

Har­ry spun around in midair. Sure enough, McLaggen, for rea­sons best known to him­self, had pulled Peakes’s bat from him and ap­peared to be de­mon­strat­ing how to hit a Bludger to­ward an on­com­ing Cad­wal­lad­er.

“Will you give him back his bat and get back to the goal posts!” roared Har­ry, pelt­ing to­ward McLaggen just as McLaggen took a fe­ro­cious swipe at the Bludger and mishit it.

A blind­ing, sick­en­ing pain … a flash of light. . . dis­tant screams . . . and the sen­sa­tion of falling down a long tun­nel. . .

And the next thing Har­ry knew, he was ly­ing in a re­mark­ably warm and com­fort­able bed and look­ing up at a lamp that was throw­ing a cir­cle of gold­en light on­to a shad­owy ceil­ing. He raised his head awk­ward­ly. There on his left was a fa­mil­iar­look­ing, freck­ly, red­haired per­son.

“Nice of you to drop in,” said Ron, grin­ning.

Har­ry blinked and looked around. Of course: He was in the hos­pi­tal wing. The sky out­side was in­di­go streaked with crim­son. The match must have fin­ished hours ago … as had any hope of cor­ner­ing Mal­foy. Har­ry’s head felt strange­ly heavy; he raised a hand and felt a stiff tur­ban of ban­dages.

“What hap­pened?”

“Cracked skull,” said Madam Pom­frey, bustling up and push­ing him back against his pil­lows. “Noth­ing to wor­ry about, I mend­ed it at once, but I’m keep­ing you in overnight. You shouldn’t over ex­ert your­self for a few hours.”

“I don’t want to stay here overnight,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly, sit­ting up and throw­ing back his cov­ers. “I want to find McLaggen and kill him.”

“I’m afraid that would come un­der the head­ing of ‘overex­er­tion,’” said Madam Pom­frey, push­ing him firm­ly back on­to the bed and rais­ing her wand in a threat­en­ing man­ner. “You will stay here un­til I dis­charge you, Pot­ter, or I shall call the head­mas­ter.”

She bus­tled back in­to her of­fice, and Har­ry sank back in­to his pil­lows, fum­ing.

“D’you know how much we lost by?” he asked Ron through clenched teeth.

“Well, yeah I do,” said Ron apo­lo­get­ical­ly. “Fi­nal score was three hun­dred and twen­ty to six­ty.”

“Bril­liant,” said Har­ry sav­age­ly. “Re­al­ly bril­liant! When I get hold of McLaggen —”

“You don’t want to get hold of him, he’s the size of a troll,” said

Ron rea­son­ably. “Per­son­al­ly, I think there’s a lot to be said for hex­ing him with that toe­nail thing of the Prince’s. Any­way, the rest of the team might’ve dealt with him be­fore you get out of here, they’re not hap­py. …”

There was a note of bad­ly sup­pressed glee in Rons voice; Har­ry could tell he was noth­ing short of thrilled that McLaggen had messed up so bad­ly. Har­ry lay there, star­ing up at the patch of light on the ceil­ing, his re­cent­ly mend­ed skull not hurt­ing, pre­cise­ly, but feel­ing slight­ly ten­der un­der­neath all the ban­dag­ing.

“I could hear the match com­men­tary from here,” said Ron, his voice now shak­ing with laugh­ter. “I hope Lu­na al­ways com­men­tates from now on. . . . Los­er’s Lur­gy …”

But Har­ry was still too an­gry to see much hu­mor in the sit­ua­tion, and af­ter a while Ron’s snorts sub­sid­ed.

“Gin­ny came in to vis­it while you were un­con­scious,” he said, af­ter a long pause, and Har­ry’s imag­ina­tion zoomed in­to over­drive, rapid­ly con­struct­ing a scene in which Gin­ny, weep­ing over his life­less form, con­fessed her feel­in­gs of deep at­trac­tion to him while Ron gave them his bless­ing. . . .”She reck­ons you on­ly just ar­rived on time for the match. How come? You left here ear­ly enough.”

“Oh . . .” said Har­ry, as the scene in his mind’s eye im­plod­ed. “Yeah . . . well, I saw Mal­foy sneak­ing off with a cou­ple of girls who didn’t look like they want­ed to be with him, and that’s the sec­ond time he’s made sure he isn’t down on the Quid­ditch pitch with the rest of the school; he skipped the last match too, re­mem­ber?” Har­ry sighed. “Wish I’d fol­lowed him now, the match was such a fi­as­co. . . .”

“Don’t be stupid,” said Ron sharply. “You couldn’t have missed a Quid­ditch match just to fol­low Mal­foy, you’re the Cap­tain!”

“I want to know what he’s up to,” said Har­ry. “And don’t tell nn its all in my head, not af­ter what I over­heard be­tween him and Snape —”

“I nev­er said it was all in your head,” said Ron, hoist­ing him­self up on an el­bow in turn and frown­ing at Har­ry, “but there’s no rule say­ing on­ly one per­son at a time can be plot­ting any­thing in this place! You’re get­ting a bit ob­sessed with Mal­foy, Har­ry. I mean, think­ing about miss­ing a match just to fol­low him …”

“I want to catch him at it!” said Har­ry in frus­tra­tion. “I mean, where’s he go­ing when he dis­ap­pears off the map?”

“I dun­no . . . Hogsmeade?” sug­gest­ed Ron, yawn­ing.

“I’ve nev­er seen him go­ing along any of the se­cret pas­sage­way on the map. I thought they were be­ing watched now any­way?”

“Well then, I dun­no,” said Ron.

Si­lence fell be­tween them. Har­ry stared up at the cir­cle of lamp light above him, think­ing. . . .

If on­ly he had Ru­fus Scrim­geour’s pow­er, he would have been able to set a tail up­on Mal­foy, but un­for­tu­nate­ly Har­ry did not have an of­fice full of Au­rors at his com­mand. . . . He thought fleet­ing­ly of try­ing to set some­thing up with the D.A., but there again was the prob­lem that peo­ple would be missed from lessons; most of them, af­ter all, still had full sched­ules. . . .

There was a low, rum­bling snore from Ron’s bed. Af­ter a while Madam Pom­frey came out of her of­fice, this time wear­ing a thick dress­ing gown. It was eas­iest to feign sleep; Har­ry rolled over on­to his side and lis­tened to all the cur­tains clos­ing them­selves as she waved her wand. The lamps dimmed, and she re­turned to her of­fice; he heard the door click be­hind her and knew that she was off to bed.

This was, Har­ry re­flect­ed in the dark­ness, the third time that he had been brought to the hos­pi­tal wing be­cause of a Quid­ditch in­ju­ry. Last time he had fall­en off his broom due to the pres­ence of de­men­tors around the pitch, and the time be­fore that, all the bones had been re­moved from his arm by the in­cur­ably in­ept Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart. . . . That had been his most painful in­ju­ry by far … he re­mem­bered the agony of re­grow­ing an arm­ful of bones in one night, a dis­com­fort not eased by the ar­ri­val of an un­ex­pect­ed vis­itor in the mid­dle of the —

Har­ry sat bolt up­right, his heart pound­ing, his ban­dage tur­ban askew. He had the so­lu­tion at last: There was a way to have Mal­foy fol­lowed — how could he have for­got­ten, why hadn’t he thought

of it be­fore?

But the ques­tion was, how to call him? What did you do? Qui­et­ly, ten­ta­tive­ly, Har­ry spoke in­to the dark­ness.

“Kreach­er?”

There was a very loud crack, and the sounds of scuf­fling and squeaks filled the silent room. Ron awoke with a yelp.

“What’s go­ing — ?”

Har­ry point­ed his wand hasti­ly at the door of Madam Pom­frey’s of­fice and mut­tered, “Muf­flia­to!” so that she would not come run­ning. Then he scram­bled to the end of his bed for a bet­ter look at

what was go­ing on.

Two house­elves were rolling around on the floor in the mid­dle of the dor­mi­to­ry, one wear­ing a shrunk­en ma­roon jumper and sev­er­al wool­ly hats, the oth­er, a filthy old rag strung over his hips like a loin­cloth. Then there was an­oth­er loud bang, and Peeves the Poltergeist ap­peared in midair above the wrestling elves.

“I was watch­ing that, Pot­ty!” he told Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly, point­ing at the fight be­low, be­fore let­ting out a loud cack­le. “Look at the ick­le crea­tures squab­bling, bitey bitey, punchy punchy —”

“Kreach­er will not in­sult Har­ry Pot­ter in front of Dob­by, no he won’t, or Dob­by will shut Kreach­er’s mouth for him!” cried Dob­by in a high­pitched voice.

“— kicky, scratchy!” cried Peeves hap­pi­ly, now pelt­ing bits of’ chalk at the elves to en­rage them fur­ther. “Tweaky, pokey!”

“Kreach­er will say what he likes about his mas­ter, oh yes, and what a mas­ter he is, filthy friend of Mud­bloods, oh, what would poor Kreach­er’s mis­tress say — ?”

Ex­act­ly what Kreach­er’s mis­tress would have said they did not find out, for at that mo­ment Dob­by sank his knob­bly lit­tle fist in­to Kreach­er’s mouth and knocked out half of his teeth. Har­ry and Ron both leapt out of their beds and wrenched the two elves apart, though they con­tin­ued to try and kick and punch each oth­er, egged on by Peeves, who swooped around the lamp squeal­ing, “Stick your fin­gers up his nosey, draw his cork and pull his ear­sies —”

Har­ry aimed his wand at Peeves and said, “Lan­glock!” Peeves clutched at his throat, gulped, then swooped from the room mak­ing ob­scene ges­tures but un­able to speak, ow­ing to the fact that his tongue had just glued it­self to the roof of his mouth.

“Nice one,” said Ron ap­pre­cia­tive­ly, lift­ing Dob­by in­to the air so that his flail­ing limbs no longer made con­tact with Kreach­er. “That was an­oth­er Prince hex, wasn’t it?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, twist­ing Kreach­er’s wiz­ened arm in­to a half nel­son. “Right — I’m for­bid­ding you to fight each oth­er! Well, Kreach­er, you’re for­bid­den to fight Dob­by. Dob­by, I know I’m not al­lowed to give you or­ders —”

“Dob­by is a free house­elf and he can obey any­one he likes and Dob­by will do what­ev­er Har­ry Pot­ter wants him to do!” said Dob­by, tears now stream­ing down his shriv­eled lit­tle face on­to his jumper.

“Okay then,” said Har­ry, and he and Ron both re­leased the elves, who fell to the floor but did not con­tin­ue fight­ing.

“Mas­ter called me?” croaked Kreach­er, sink­ing in­to a bow even as he gave Har­ry a look that plain­ly wished him a painful death.

“Yeah, I did,” said Har­ry, glanc­ing to­ward Madam Pom­frey’s of­fice door to check that the Muf­flia­to spell was still work­ing; there was no sign that she had heard any of the com­mo­tion. “I’ve got a job for you.”

“Kreach­er will do what­ev­er Mas­ter wants,” said Kreach­er, sink­ing so low that his lips al­most touched his gnarled toes, “be­cause Kreach­er has no choice, but Kreach­er is ashamed to have such a mas­ter, yes —”

“Dob­by will do it, Har­ry Pot­ter!” squeaked Dob­by, his ten­nis­ball­sized eyes still swim­ming in tears. “Dob­by would be hon­ored to help Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“Come to think of it, it would be good to have both of you,” said Har­ry. “Okay then … I want you to tail Dra­co Mal­foy.”

Ig­nor­ing the look of min­gled sur­prise and ex­as­per­ation on Ron’s face, Har­ry went on, “I want to know where he’s go­ing, who he’s meet­ing, and what he’s do­ing. I want you to fol­low him around the clock.”

“Yes, Har­ry Pot­ter!” said Dob­by at once, his great eyes shin­ing with ex­cite­ment. “And if Dob­by does it wrong, Dob­by will throw him­self off the top­most tow­er, Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“There won’t be any need for that,” said Har­ry hasti­ly.

“Mas­ter wants me to fol­low the youngest of the Mal­foys?” croaked Kreach­er. “Mas­ter wants me to spy up­on the pure­blood great­nephew of my old mis­tress?”

“That’s the one,” said Har­ry, fore­see­ing a great dan­ger and de­ter­min­ing to pre­vent it im­me­di­ate­ly. “And you’re for­bid­den to tip him off, Kreach­er, or to show him what you’re up to, or to talk to him at all, or to write him mes­sages or … or to con­tact him in any way. Got it?”

He thought he could see Kreach­er strug­gling to see a loop­hole in the in­struc­tions he had just been giv­en and wait­ed. Af­ter a mo­ment or two, and to Har­rys great sat­is­fac­tion, Kreach­er bowed deeply again and said, with bit­ter re­sent­ment, “Mas­ter thinks of ev­ery­thing, and Kreach­er must obey him even though Kreach­er would much rather be the ser­vant of the Mal­foy boy, oh yes. . . .”

“That’s set­tled, then,” said Har­ry. “I’ll want reg­ular re­ports, but make sure I’m not sur­round­ed by peo­ple when you turn up. Ron and Hermione are okay. And don’t tell any­one what you’re do­ing. Just stick to Mal­foy like a cou­ple of wart plas­ters.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 20: Lord Voldemort’s Request


Har­ry and Ron left the hos­pi­tal wing first thing on Mon­day morn­ing, re­stored to full health by the min­is­tra­tions of Madam Pom­frey and now able to en­joy the ben­efits of hav­ing been knocked out and poi­soned, the best of which was that Hermione was friends with Ron again. Hermione even es­cort­ed them down to break­fast, bring­ing with her the news that Gin­ny had ar­gued with Dean. The drows­ing crea­ture in Har­ry’s chest sud­den­ly raised its head, sniff­ing the air hope­ful­ly.

“What did they row about?” he asked, try­ing to sound ca­su­al as they turned on­to a sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor that was de­sert­ed but for a very small girl who had been ex­am­in­ing a tapestry of trolls in tu­tus. She looked ter­ri­fied at the sight of the ap­proach­ing sixth years and dropped the heavy brass scales she was car­ry­ing.

“It’s all right!” said Hermione kind­ly, hur­ry­ing for­ward to help her. “Here …”

She tapped the bro­ken scales with her wand and said, “Reparo.” The girl did not say thank you, but re­mained root­ed to the spot as they passed and watched them out of sight; Ron glanced back at her.

“I swear they’re get­ting small­er,” he said.

“Nev­er mind her,” said Har­ry, a lit­tle im­pa­tient­ly. “What did Gin­ny and Dean row about, Hermione?”

“Oh, Dean was laugh­ing about McLaggen hit­ting that Bludgu at you,” said Hermione.

“It must’ve looked fun­ny,” said Ron rea­son­ably. “It didn’t look fun­ny at all!” said Hermione hot­ly. “It looked ter­ri­ble and if Coote and Peakes hadn’t caught Har­ry he could have been very bad­ly hurt!”

“Yeah, well, there was no need for Gin­ny and Dean to split up over it,” said Har­ry, still try­ing to sound ca­su­al. “Or are they still to­geth­er?”

“Yes, they are — but why are you so in­ter­est­ed?” asked Hermione, giv­ing Har­ry a sharp look.

“I just don’t want my Quid­ditch team messed up again!” he said hasti­ly, but Hermione con­tin­ued to look sus­pi­cious, and he was most re­lieved when a voice be­hind them called, “Har­ry!” giv­ing him an ex­cuse to turn his back on her. “Oh, hi, Lu­na.”

- “I went to the hos­pi­tal wing to find you,” said Lu­na, rum­mag­ing in her bag. “But they said you’d left…”

She thrust what ap­peared to be a green onion, a large spot­ted toad­stool, and a con­sid­er­able amount of what looked like cat lit­ter in­to Ron’s hands, fi­nal­ly pulling out a rather grub­by scroll of parch­ment that she hand­ed to Har­ry.

“. . . I’ve been told to give you this.”

It was a small roll of parch­ment, which Har­ry rec­og­nized at once as an­oth­er in­vi­ta­tion to a les­son with Dum­ble­dore.

“Tonight,” he told Ron and Hermione, once he had un­rolled it.

“Nice com­men­tary last match!” said Ron to Lu­na as she took back the green onion, the toad­stool, and the cat lit­ter. Lu­na smiled vague­ly.

“You’re mak­ing fun of me, aren’t you?” she said. “Ev­ery­one says I was dread­ful.”

“No, I’m se­ri­ous!” said Ron earnest­ly. “I can’t re­mem­ber en­joy­ing com­men­tary more! What is this, by the way?” he added, hold­ing the onion­like ob­ject up to eye lev­el.

“Oh, it’s a Gur­dy­root,” she said, stuff­ing the cat lit­ter and the toad­stool back in­to her bag. “You can keep it if you like, I’ve got a few of them. They’re re­al­ly ex­cel­lent for ward­ing off Gulp­ing Plimp­ies.” And she walked away, leav­ing Ron chortling, still clutch­ing the Gur­dy­root.

“You know, she’s grown on me, Lu­na,” he said, as they set off again for the Great Hall. “I know she’s in­sane, but it’s in a good —” He stopped talk­ing very sud­den­ly. Laven­der Brown was stand­ing at the foot of the mar­ble stair­case look­ing thun­der­ous. “Hi,” said Ron ner­vous­ly.

“C’mon,” Har­ry mut­tered to Hermione, and they sped past, though not be­fore they had heard Laven­der say, “Why didn’t you tell me you were get­ting out to­day? And why was she with you?”

Ron looked both sulky and an­noyed when he ap­peared at break­fast half an hour lat­er, and though he sat with Laven­der, Har­ry did not see them ex­change a word all the time they were to­geth­er. Hermione was act­ing as though she was quite obliv­ious to all of this, but once or twice Har­ry saw an in­ex­pli­ca­ble smirk cross her face. All that day she seemed to be in a par­tic­ular­ly good mood, and that evening in the com­mon room she even con­sent­ed to look over (in oth­er words, fin­ish writ­ing) Har­ry’s Her­bol­ogy es­say, some­thing she had been res­olute­ly re­fus­ing to do up to this point, be­cause she had known that Har­ry would then let Ron copy his work.

“Thanks a lot, Hermione,” said Har­ry, giv­ing her a hasty pat on the back as he checked his watch and saw that it was near­ly eight o’clock. “Lis­ten, I’ve got to hur­ry or I’ll be late for Dum­ble­dore. …”

She did not an­swer, but mere­ly crossed out a few of his fee­bler sen­tences in a weary sort of way. Grin­ning, Har­ry hur­ried out through the por­trait hole and off to the head­mas­ters of­fice. The gar­goyle leapt aside at the men­tion of tof­fee eclairs, and Har­ry took the spi­ral stair­case two steps at a time, knock­ing on the door just as a clock with­in chimed eight.

“En­ter,” called Dum­ble­dore, but as Har­ry put out a hand to push the door, it was wrenched open from in­side. There stood Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

“Aha!” she cried, point­ing dra­mat­ical­ly at Har­ry as she blinked at him through her mag­ni­fy­ing spec­ta­cles.

“So this is the rea­son I am to be thrown un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly from your of­fice, Dum­ble­dore!”

“My dear Sybill,” said Dum­ble­dore in a slight­ly ex­as­per­at­ed voice, “there is no ques­tion of throw­ing you un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly from any­where, but Har­ry does have an ap­point­ment, and I re­al­ly don’t think there is any more to be said —”

“Very well,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in a deeply wound­ed voice. “If you will not ban­ish the usurp­ing nag, so be it. …

Per­haps I shall find a school where my tal­ents are bet­ter ap­pre­ci­at­ed. …”

She pushed past Har­ry and dis­ap­peared down the spi­ral stair­case; they heard her stum­ble halfway down, and Har­ry guessed that she had tripped over one of her trail­ing shawls.

“Please close the door and sit down, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, sound­ing rather tired.

Har­ry obeyed, not­ic­ing as he took his usu­al seat in front of Dum­ble­dore’s desk that the Pen­sieve lay be­tween them once more, as did two more tiny crys­tal bot­tles full of swirling mem­ory.

“Pro­fes­sor Trelawney still isn’t hap­py Firen­ze is teach­ing, then?” Har­ry asked.

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore, “Div­ina­tion is turn­ing out to be much more trou­ble than I could have fore­seen, nev­er hav­ing stud­ied the sub­ject my­self. I can­not ask Firen­ze to re­turn to the for­est, where he is now an out­cast, nor can I ask Sybill Trelawney to leave. Be­tween our­selves, she has no idea of the dan­ger she would be in out­side the cas­tle. She does not know — and I think it would be un­wise to en­light­en her — that she made the prophe­cy about you and Volde­mort, you see.”

Dum­ble­dore heaved a deep sigh, then said, “But nev­er mind my staffing prob­lems. We have much more im­por­tant mat­ters to dis­cuss. First­ly — have you man­aged the task I set you at the end of our pre­vi­ous les­son?”

“Ah,” said Har­ry, brought up short. What with Ap­pari­tion lessons and Quid­ditch and Ron be­ing poi­soned and get­ting his skull cracked and his de­ter­mi­na­tion to find out what Dra­co Mal­foy was up to, Har­ry had al­most for­got­ten about the mem­ory Dum­ble­dore had asked him to ex­tract from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn. “Well, I asked Pro­fes­sor Slughorn about it at the end of Po­tions, sir, but, er, he wouldn’t give it to me.” There was a lit­tle si­lence.

“I see,” said Dum­ble­dore even­tu­al­ly, peer­ing at Har­ry over the top of his half­moon spec­ta­cles and giv­ing Har­ry the usu­al sen­sa­tion that he was be­ing Xrayed. “And you feel that you have ex­ert­ed your very best ef­forts in this mat­ter, do you? That you have ex­er­cised all of your con­sid­er­able in­ge­nu­ity? That you have left no depth of cun­ning un­plumbed in your quest to re­trieve the mem­ory?”

“Well,” Har­ry stalled, at a loss for what to say next. His sin­gle at­tempt to get hold of the mem­ory sud­den­ly seemed em­bar­rass­ing­ly fee­ble. “Well . . . the day Ron sw­al­lowed love po­tion by mis­take I took him to Pro­fes­sor Slughorn. I thought maybe if I got Pro­fes­sor Slughorn in a good enough mood —” “And did that work?” asked Dum­ble­dore. “Well, no, sir, be­cause Ron got poi­soned —” “— which, nat­ural­ly, made you for­get all about try­ing to re­trieve the mem­ory; I would have ex­pect­ed noth­ing else, while your best friend was in dan­ger. Once it be­came clear that Mr. Weasley was go­ing to make a full re­cov­ery, how­ev­er, I would have hoped that you re­turned to the task I set you. I thought I made it clear to you how very im­por­tant that mem­ory is. In­deed, I did my best to im­press up­on you that it is the most cru­cial mem­ory of all and that we will be wast­ing our time with­out it.”

A hot, prick­ly feel­ing of shame spread from the top of Har­ry’s head all the way down his body. Dum­ble­dore had not raised his voice, he did not even sound an­gry, but Har­ry would have pre­ferred him to yell; this cold dis­ap­point­ment was worse than any­thing.

“Sir,” he said, a lit­tle des­per­ate­ly, “it isn’t that I wasn’t both­ered or any­thing, I’ve just had oth­er — oth­er things . . .”

“Oth­er things on your mind,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished the sen­tence for him. “I see.”

Si­lence fell be­tween them again, the most un­com­fort­able si­lence Har­ry had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced with Dum­ble­dore; it seemed to go on and on, punc­tu­at­ed on­ly by the lit­tle grunt­ing snores of the por­trait of Ar­man­do Dip­pet over Dum­ble­dore’s head. Har­ry felt strange­ly di­min­ished, as though he had shrunk a lit­tle since he had en­tered the room. When he could stand it no longer he said, “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, I’m re­al­ly sor­ry. I should have done more. … I should have re­al­ized you wouldn’t have asked me to do it if it wasn’t re­al­ly im­por­tant.”

“Thank you for say­ing that, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “May I hope, then, that you will give this mat­ter high­er pri­or­ity from now on? There will be lit­tle point in our meet­ing af­ter tonight un­less we have that mem­ory.”

“I’ll do it, sir, I’ll get it from him,” he said earnest­ly.

“Then we shall say no more about it just now,” said Dum­ble­dore more kind­ly, “but con­tin­ue with our sto­ry where we left off. You re­mem­ber where that was?”

“Yes, sir,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Volde­mort killed his fa­ther and his grand­par­ents and made it look as though his Un­cle Morfin did it. Then he went back to Hog­warts and he asked … he asked Pro­fes­sor Slughorn about Hor­crux­es,” he mum­bled shame­faced­ly.

“Very good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Now, you will re­mem­ber, I hope, that I told you at the very out­set of these meet­in­gs of ours that we would be en­ter­ing the realms of guess­work and spec­ula­tion?”

“Yes, sir”.

“Thus far, as I hope you agree, I have shown you rea­son­ably firm sources of fact for my de­duc­tions as to what Volde­mort did un­til the age of sev­en­teen?”

Har­ry nod­ded.

“But now, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, “now things be­come mur­ki­er and stranger. If it was dif­fi­cult to find ev­idence about the boy Rid­dle, it has been al­most im­pos­si­ble to find any­one pre­pared to rem­inisce about the man Volde­mort. In fact, I doubt whether there is a soul alive, apart from him­self, who could give us a full ac­count of his life since he left Hog­warts. How­ev­er, I have two last mem­ories that I would like to share with you.” Dum­ble­dore in­di­cat­ed the two lit­tle crys­tal bot­tles gleam­ing be­side the Pen­sieve. “I shall then be glad of your opin­ion as to whether the con­clu­sions I have drawn from them seem like­ly.”

The idea that Dum­ble­dore val­ued his opin­ion this high­ly made Har­ry feel even more deeply ashamed that he had failed in the task of re­triev­ing the Hor­crux mem­ory, and he shift­ed guilti­ly in his seat as Dum­ble­dore raised the first of the two bot­tles to the light and ex­am­in­ed it.

“I hope you are not tired of div­ing in­to oth­er peo­ple’s mem­ories, for they are cu­ri­ous rec­ol­lec­tions, these two,” he said. “This first one came from a very old house­elf by the name of Hokey. Be­fore we see what Hokey wit­nessed, I must quick­ly re­count how Lord Volde­mort left Hog­warts.

“He reached the sev­enth year of his school­ing with, as you might have ex­pect­ed, top grades in ev­ery ex­am­ina­tion he had tak­en. All around him, his class­mates were de­cid­ing which jobs they were to pur­sue once they had left Hog­warts. Near­ly ev­ery­body ex­pect­ed spec­tac­ular things from Tom Rid­dle, pre­fect, Head Boy, win­ner of the Award for Spe­cial Ser­vices to the School. I know that sev­er­al teach­ers, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn amongst them, sug­gest­ed that he join the Min­istry of Mag­ic, of­fered to set up ap­point­ments, put him in touch with use­ful con­tacts. He re­fused all of­fers. The next thing the staff knew, Volde­mort was work­ing at Bor­gin and Burkes.”

“At Bor­gin and Burkes?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, stunned.

“At Bor­gin and Burkes,” re­peat­ed Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “I think you will see what at­trac­tions the place held for him when we have en­tered Hokey’s mem­ory. But this was not Volde­mort’s first choice of job. Hard­ly any­one knew of it at the time — I was one of the few in whom the then head­mas­ter con­fid­ed — but Volde­mort first ap­proached Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet and asked whether he could re­main at Hog­warts as a teach­er.”

“He want­ed to stay here? Why?” asked Har­ry, more amazed still.

“I be­lieve he had sev­er­al rea­sons, though he con­fid­ed none of them to Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet,” said Dum­ble­dore. “First­ly, and very im­por­tant­ly, Volde­mort was, I be­lieve, more at­tached to this school than he has ev­er been to a per­son. Hog­warts was where he had been hap­pi­est; the first and on­ly place he had felt at home.”

Har­ry felt slight­ly un­com­fort­able at these words, for this was ex­act­ly how he felt about Hog­warts too.

“Sec­ond­ly, the cas­tle is a stronghold of an­cient mag­ic. Un­doubt­ed­ly Volde­mort had pen­etrat­ed many more of its se­crets than most of the stu­dents who pass through the place, but he may have felt that there were still mys­ter­ies to un­rav­el, stores of mag­ic to tap.

“And third­ly, as a teach­er, he would have had great pow­er and in­flu­ence over young witch­es and wiz­ards. Per­haps he had gained the idea from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, the teach­er with whom he was on best terms, who had de­mon­strat­ed how in­flu­en­tial a role a teach­er can play. I do not imag­ine for an in­stant that Volde­mort en­vis­aged spend­ing the rest of his life at Hog­warts, but I do think that he saw it as a use­ful re­cruit­ing ground, and a place where he might be­gin to build him­self an army.”

“But he didn’t get the job, sir?”

“No, he did not. Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet told him that he was too young at eigh­teen, but in­vit­ed him to reap­ply in a few years, if he still wished to teach.”

“How did you feel about that, sir?” asked Har­ry hes­itant­ly. “Deeply un­easy,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I had ad­vised Ar­man­do against the ap­point­ment — I did not give the rea­sons I have giv­en you, for Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet was very fond of Volde­mort and con­vinced of his hon­es­ty. But I did not want Lord Volde­mort back at this school, and es­pe­cial­ly not in a po­si­tion of pow­er.”

“Which job did he want, sir? What sub­ject did he want to teach?”

Some­how, Har­ry knew the an­swer even be­fore Dum­ble­dore gave it.

“De­fense Against the Dark Arts. It was be­ing taught at the time by an old Pro­fes­sor by the name of Galatea Mer­ry­thought, who had been at Hog­warts for near­ly fifty years.

“So Volde­mort went off to Bor­gin and Burkes, and all the staff who had ad­mired him said what a waste it was, a bril­liant young wiz­ard like that, work­ing in a shop. How­ev­er, Volde­mort was no mere as­sis­tant. Po­lite and hand­some and clever, he was soon giv­en par­tic­ular jobs of the type that on­ly ex­ist in a place like Bor­gin and Burkes, which spe­cial­izes, as you know, Har­ry, in ob­jects with un­usu­al and pow­er­ful prop­er­ties. Volde­mort was sent to per­suade peo­ple to part with their trea­sures for sale by the part­ners, and he was, by all ac­counts, un­usu­al­ly gift­ed at do­ing this.”

“I’ll bet he was,” said Har­ry, un­able to con­tain him­self.

“Well, quite,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a faint smile. “And now it is time to hear from Hokey the house­elf, who worked for a very old, very rich witch by the name of Hep­zibah Smith.”

Dum­ble­dore tapped a bot­tle with his wand, the cork flew out, and he tipped the swirling mem­ory in­to the Pen­sieve, say­ing as he did so, “Af­ter you, Har­ry.”

Har­ry got to his feet and bent once more over the rip­pling sil­ver con­tents of the stone basin un­til his face touched them. He tum­bled through dark noth­ing­ness and land­ed in a sit­ting room in front of an im­mense­ly fat old la­dy wear­ing an elab­orate gin­ger wig and a bril­liant pink set of robes that flowed all around her, giv­ing her the look of a melt­ing iced cake. She was look­ing in­to a small jew­eled mir­ror and dab­bing rouge on­to her al­ready scar­let cheeks with a large pow­der puff, while the ti­ni­est and old­est house­elf Har­ry had ev­er seen laced her fleshy feet in­to tight satin slip­pers.

“Hur­ry up, Hokey!” said Hep­zibah im­pe­ri­ous­ly. “He said he’d come at four, it’s on­ly a cou­ple of min­utes to and he’s nev­er been late yet!”

She tucked away her pow­der puff as the house­elf straight­ened up. The top of the elf’s head bare­ly reached the seat of Hep­zibah’s chair, and her pa­pery skin hung off her frame just like the crisp linen sheet she wore draped like a to­ga.

“How do I look?” said Hep­zibah, turn­ing her head to ad­mire the var­ious an­gles of her face in the mir­ror.

“Love­ly, madam,” squeaked Hokey.

Har­ry could on­ly as­sume that it was down in Hokey’s con­tract that she must lie through her teeth when asked this ques­tion, be­cause Hep­zibah Smith looked a long way from love­ly in his opin­ion.

A tin­kling door­bell rang and both mis­tress and elf jumped.

“Quick, quick, he’s here, Hokey!” cried Hep­zibah and the elf scur­ried out of the room, which was so crammed with ob­jects that it was dif­fi­cult to see how any­body could nav­igate their way across it with­out knock­ing over at least a dozen things: There were cab­in­ets full of lit­tle lac­quered box­es, cas­es full of gol­dem­bossed books, shelves of orbs and ce­les­tial globes, and many flour­ish­ing pot­ted plants in brass con­tain­ers. In fact, the room looked like a cross be­tween a mag­ical an­tique shop and a con­ser­va­to­ry.

The house­elf re­turned with­in min­utes, fol­lowed by a tall young man Har­ry had no dif­fi­cul­ty what­so­ev­er in rec­og­niz­ing as Volde­mort. He was plain­ly dressed in a black suit; his hair was a lit­tle longer than it had been at school and his cheeks were hol­lowed, but all of this suit­ed him; he looked more hand­some than ev­er. He picked his way through the cramped room with an air that showed he had vis­it­ed many times be­fore and bowed low over Hep­zibah’s fat lit­tle hand, brush­ing it with his lips.

“I brought you flow­ers,” he said qui­et­ly, pro­duc­ing a bunch of ros­es from nowhere.

“You naughty boy, you shouldn’t have!” squealed old Hep­zibah, though Har­ry no­ticed that she had an emp­ty vase stand­ing ready on the near­est lit­tle ta­ble. “You do spoil this old la­dy, Tom. … Sit down, sit down. . . . Where’s Hokey? Ah …”

The house­elf had come dash­ing back in­to the room car­ry­ing a tray of lit­tle cakes, which she set at her mis­tress’s el­bow.

“Help your­self, Tom,” said Hep­zibah, “I know how you love my cakes. Now, how are you? You look pale. They over­work you at that shop, I’ve said it a hun­dred times. …”

Volde­mort smiled me­chan­ical­ly and Hep­zibah sim­pered.

“Well, what’s your ex­cuse for vis­it­ing this time?” she asked, ba­tring her lash­es.

“Mr. Burke would like to make an im­proved of­fer for the gob­lin­made ar­mor,” said Volde­mort. “Five hun­dred Galleons, he feels it is a more than fair —”

“Now, now, not so fast, or I’ll think you’re on­ly here for my trin­kets!” pout­ed Hep­zibah.

“I am or­dered here be­cause of them,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “I am on­ly a poor as­sis­tant, madam, who must do as he is told. Mr. Burke wish­es me to in­quire —”

“Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!” said Hep­zibah, wav­ing a lit­tle hand. “I’ve some­thing to show you that I’ve nev­er shown Mr. Burke! Can you keep a se­cret, Tom? Will you promise you won’t tell Mr. Burke I’ve got it? He’d nev­er let me rest if he knew I’d shown it to you, and I’m not sell­ing, not to Burke, not to any­one! But you, Tom, you’ll ap­pre­ci­ate it for its his­to­ry, not how many Galleons you can get for it.”

“I’d be glad to see any­thing Miss Hep­zibah shows me,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly, and Hep­zibah gave an­oth­er girl­ish gig­gle.

“I had Hokey bring it out for me . . . Hokey, where are you? I want to show Mr. Rid­dle our finest trea­sure. … In fact, bring both, while you’re at it. …”

“Here, madam,” squeaked the house­elf, and Har­ry saw two leather box­es, one on top of the oth­er, mov­ing across the room as if of their own vo­li­tion, though he knew the tiny elf was hold­ing them over her head as she wend­ed her way be­tween ta­bles, ***pouffes, and foot­stools.

“Now,” said Hep­zibah hap­pi­ly, tak­ing the box­es from the elf, lay­ing them in her lap, and prepar­ing to open the top­most one, “I think you’ll like this, Tom. . . . Oh, if my fam­ily knew I was show­ing you. . . . They can’t wait to get their hands on this!”

She opened the lid. Har­ry edged for­ward a lit­tle to get a bet­ter view and saw what looked like a small gold­en cup with two fine­ly wrought han­dles.

“I won­der whether you know what it is, Tom? Pick it up, have a good look!” whis­pered Hep­zibah, and Volde­mort stretched out a longfin­gered hand and lift­ed the cup by one han­dle out of its snug silken wrap­pings. Har­ry thought he saw a red gleam in his dark eyes. His greedy ex­pres­sion was cu­ri­ous­ly mir­rored on Hep­zibah’s face, ex­cept that her tiny eyes were fixed up­on Volde­mort’s hand­some fea­tures.

“A bad­ger,” mur­mured Volde­mort, ex­am­in­ing the en­grav­ing up­on the cup. “Then this was . . . ?”

“Hel­ga Huf­flepuff’s, as you very well know, you clever boy!” said Hep­zibah, lean­ing for­ward with a loud creak­ing of corsets and ac­tu­al­ly pinch­ing his hol­low cheek. “Didn’t I tell you I was dis­tant­ly de­scend­ed? This has been hand­ed down in the fam­ily for years and years. Love­ly, isn’t it? And all sorts of pow­ers it’s sup­posed to pos­sess too, but I haven’t test­ed them thor­ough­ly, I just keep it nice and safe in here. . . .”

She hooked the cup back off Volde­mort’s long fore­fin­ger and re­stored it gen­tly to its box, too in­tent up­on set­tling it care­ful­ly back in­to po­si­tion to no­tice the shad­ow that crossed Volde­mort’s face as the cup was tak­en away.

“Now then,” said Hep­zibah hap­pi­ly, “where’s Hokey? Oh yes, there you are — take that away now, Hokey.”

The elf obe­di­ent­ly took the boxed cup, and Hep­zibah turned her at­ten­tion to the much flat­ter box in her lap.

“I think you’ll like this even more, Tom,” she whis­pered. “Lean in a lit­tle, dear boy, so you can see. . . . Of course, Burke knows I’ve got this one, I bought it from him, and I dare­say he’d love to get it back when I’m gone. …”

She slid back the fine fil­igree clasp and flipped open the box. There up­on the smooth crim­son vel­vet lay a heavy gold­en lock­et.

Volde­mort reached out his hand, with­out in­vi­ta­tion this time, and held it up to the light, star­ing at it.

“Slytherin’s mark,” he said qui­et­ly, as the light played up­on an or­nate, ser­pen­tine S.

“That’s right!” said Hep­zibah, de­light­ed, ap­par­ent­ly, at the sight of Volde­mort gaz­ing at her lock­et, trans­fixed. “I had to pay an arm and a leg for it, but I couldn’t let it pass, not a re­al trea­sure like that, had to have it for my col­lec­tion. Burke bought it, ap­par­ent­ly, from a ragged­look­ing wom­an who seemed to have stolen it, but had no idea of its true val­ue —”

There was no mis­tak­ing it this time: Volde­mort’s eyes flashed scar­let at the words, and Har­ry saw his knuck­les whiten on the lock­et’s chain.

“— I dare­say Burke paid her a pit­tance but there you are. . . . Pret­ty, isn’t it? And again, all kinds of pow­ers at­trib­ut­ed to it, though I just keep it nice and safe. . . .”

She reached out to take the lock­et back. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought Volde­mort was not go­ing to let go of it, but then it had slid through his fin­gers and was back in its red vel­vet cush­ion.

“So there you are, Tom, clear, and I hope you en­joyed that!”

She looked him full in the face and for the first time, Har­ry saw her fool­ish smile fal­ter.

“Are you all right, dear?”

“Oh yes,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “Yes, I’m very well. …”

“I thought — but a trick of the light, I sup­pose —” said Hep­zibah, look­ing un­nerved, and Har­ry guessed that she too had seen the mo­men­tary red gleam in Volde­mort’s eyes. “Here, Hokey, take these away and lock them up again. … The usu­al en­chant­ments…

“Time to leave, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, and as the in tie elf bobbed away bear­ing the box­es, Dum­ble­dore grasped Har­ry once again above the el­bow and to­geth­er they rose up through obliv­ion and back to Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice.

“Hep­zibah Smith died two days af­ter that lit­tle scene,” said Dum­ble­dore, re­sum­ing his seat and in­di­cat­ing that Har­ry should do the same. “Hokey the house­elf was con­vict­ed by the Min­istry of poi­son­ing her mis­tress’s evening co­coa by ac­ci­dent.”

“No way!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

“I see we are of one mind,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Cer­tain­ly, then are many sim­ilar­ities be­tween this death and that of the Rid­dles. In both cas­es, some­body else took the blame, some­one who had a clear mem­ory of hav­ing caused the death —” “Hokey con­fessed?”

“She re­mem­bered putting some­thing in her mis­tress’s co­coa that turned out not to be sug­ar, but a lethal and lit­tle­known poi­son, said Dum­ble­dore. “It was con­clud­ed that she had not meant to do it, but be­ing old and con­fused —”

“Volde­mort mod­ified her mem­ory, just like he did with Morfin!” “Yes, that is my con­clu­sion too,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And, just as with Morfin, the Min­istry was pre­dis­posed to sus­pect Hokey —”

“— be­cause she was a house­elf,” said Har­ry. He had rarely felt more in sym­pa­thy with the so­ci­ety Hermione had set up, S.P.E.W. “Pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “She was old, she ad­mit­ted to hav­ing tam­pered with the drink, and no­body at the Min­istry both­ered to in­quire fur­ther. As in the case of Morfin, by the time I traced her and man­aged to ex­tract this mem­ory, her life was al­most over — but her mem­ory, of course, proves noth­ing ex­cept that Volde­mort knew of the ex­is­tence of the cup and the lock­et.

“By the time Hokey was con­vict­ed, Hep­zibah’s fam­ily had re­al­ized that two of her great­est trea­sures were miss­ing. It took them a while to be sure of this, for she had many hid­ing places, hav­ing al­ways guard­ed her col­lec­tion most jeal­ous­ly. But be­fore they were sure be­yond doubt that the cup and the lock­et were both gone, the as­sis­tant who had worked at Bor­gin and Burkes, the young man who had vis­it­ed Hep­zibah so reg­ular­ly and charmed her so well, had re­signed his post and van­ished. His su­pe­ri­ors had no idea where he had gone; they were as sur­prised as any­one at his dis­ap­pear­an­ce. And that was the last that was seen or heard of Tom Rid­dle for a very long time.

“Now,” said Dum­ble­dore, “if you don’t mind, Har­ry, I want to pause once more to draw your at­ten­tion to cer­tain points of our sto­ry. Volde­mort had com­mit­ted an­oth­er mur­der; whether it was his first since he killed the Rid­dles, I do not know, but I think it was. This time, as you will have seen, he killed not for re­venge, but for gain. He want­ed the two fab­ulous tro­phies that poor, be­sot­ted, old wom­an showed him. Just as he had once robbed the oth­er chil­dren at his or­phan­age, just as he had stolen his Un­cle Morfin’s ring, so he ran off now with Hep­zibahs cup and lock­et.”

“But,” said Har­ry, frown­ing, “it seems mad. . . . Risk­ing ev­ery­thing, throw­ing away his job, just for those . . .”

“Mad to you, per­haps, but not to Volde­mort,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I hope you will un­der­stand in due course ex­act­ly what those ob­jects meant to him, Har­ry, but you must ad­mit that it is not dif­fi­cult to imag­ine that he saw the lock­et, at least, as right­ful­ly his.” “The lock­et maybe,” said Har­ry, “but why take the cup as well?”

“It had be­longed to an­oth­er of Hog­warts’s founders,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think he still felt a great pull to­ward the school and that he could not re­sist an ob­ject so steeped in Hog­warts his­to­ry. There were oth­er rea­sons, I think. … I hope to be able to de­mon­strate them to you in due course.

“And now for the very last rec­ol­lec­tion I have to show you, at least un­til you man­age to re­trieve Pro­fes­sor Slughorn’s mem­ory for us. Ten years sep­arates Hokey’s mem­ory and this one, ten years dur­ing which we can on­ly guess at what Lord Volde­mort was do­ing. . . .” Har­ry got to his feet once more as Dum­ble­dore emp­tied the last mem­ory in­to the Pen­sieve.

“Whose mem­ory is it?” he asked. “Mine,” said Dum­ble­dore.

And Har­ry dived af­ter Dum­ble­dore through the shift­ing sil­ver mass, land­ing in the very of­fice he had just left. There was Fawkes slum­ber­ing hap­pi­ly on his perch, and there be­hind the desk was Dum­ble­dore, who looked very sim­ilar to the Dum­ble­dore stand­ing be­side Har­ry, though both hands were whole and un­dam­aged and his face was, per­haps, a lit­tle less lined. The one dif­fer­ence be­tween the present­day of­fice and this one was that it was snow­ing in the past; bluish flecks were drift­ing past the win­dow in the dark and build­ing up on the out­side ledge.

The younger Dum­ble­dore seemed to be wait­ing for some­thing, and sure enough, mo­ments af­ter their ar­ri­val, there was a knock on the door and he said, “En­ter.”

Har­ry let out a hasti­ly sti­fled gasp. Volde­mort had en­tered the room. His fea­tures were not those Har­ry had seen emerge from the great stone caul­dron al­most two years ago: They were not as snake­like, the eyes were not yet scar­let, the face not yet mask­like, and yet he was no longer hand­some Tom Rid­dle. It was as though his fea­tures had been burned and blurred; they were waxy and odd­ly dis­tort­ed, and the whites of the eyes now had a per­ma­nent­ly bloody look, though the pupils were not yet the slits that Har­ry knew they would be­come. He was wear­ing a long black cloak, and his face was as pale as the snow glis­ten­ing on his shoul­ders.

The Dum­ble­dore be­hind the desk showed no sign of sur­prise. Ev­ident­ly this vis­it had been made by ap­point­ment.

“Good evening, Tom,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily. “Won’t you sit down?”

“Thank you,” said Volde­mort, and he took the seat to which Dum­ble­dore had ges­tured — the very seat, by the looks of it, that Har­ry had just va­cat­ed in the present. “I heard that you had be­come head­mas­ter,” he said, and his voice was slight­ly high­er and cold­er than it had been. “A wor­thy choice.”

“I am glad you ap­prove,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “May I of­fer you a drink?”

“That would be wel­come,” said Volde­mort. “I have come a long way.”

Dum­ble­dore stood and swept over to the cab­in­et where he now kept the Pen­sieve, but which then was full of bot­tles. Hav­ing hand­ed Volde­mort a gob­let of wine and poured one for him­self, he re­turned to the seat be­hind his desk. . “So, Tom … to what do I owe the plea­sure?”

Volde­mort did not an­swer at once, but mere­ly sipped his wine.

“They do not call me ‘Tom’ any­more,” he said. “These days, 1 am known as —”

“I know what you are known as,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing, pleas­ant­ly. “But to me, I’m afraid, you will al­ways be Tom Rid­dle. It is one of the ir­ri­tat­ing things about old teach­ers. I am afraid that they nev­er quite for­get their charges’ youth­ful be­gin­nings.”

He raised his glass as though toast­ing Volde­mort, whose face re­mained ex­pres­sion­less. Nev­er­the­less, Har­ry felt the at­mo­sphere in the room change sub­tly: Dum­ble­dore’s re­fusal to use Volde­mort’s cho­sen name was a re­fusal to al­low Volde­mort to dic­tate the terms of the meet­ing, and Har­ry could tell that Volde­mort took it as such.

“I am sur­prised you have re­mained here so long,” said Volde­mort af­ter a short pause. “I al­ways won­dered why a wiz­ard such as your­self nev­er wished to leave school.”

“Well,” said Dum­ble­dore, still smil­ing, “to a wiz­ard such as my­self, there can be noth­ing more im­por­tant than pass­ing on an­cient skills, help­ing hone young minds. If I re­mem­ber cor­rect­ly, you once saw the at­trac­tion of teach­ing too.”

“I see it still,” said Volde­mort. “I mere­ly won­dered why you — who are so of­ten asked for ad­vice by the Min­istry, and who have twice, I think, been of­fered the post of Min­is­ter —”

“Three times at the last count, ac­tu­al­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But the Min­istry nev­er at­tract­ed me as a ca­reer. Again, some­thing we have in com­mon, I think.”

Volde­mort in­clined his head, un­smil­ing, and took an­oth­er sip of wine. Dum­ble­dore did not break the si­lence that stretched be­tween them now, but wait­ed, with a look of pleas­ant ex­pectan­cy, for Volde­mort to talk first.

“I have re­turned,” he said, af­ter a lit­tle while, “lat­er, per­haps, than Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet ex­pect­ed . . . but I have re­turned, nev­er­the­less, to re­quest again what he once told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to ask that you per­mit me to re­turn to this cas­tle, to teach. I think you must know that I have seen and done much since I left this place. I could show and tell your stu­dents things they can gain from no oth­er wiz­ard.”

Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered Volde­mort over the top of his own gob­let for a while be­fore speak­ing.

“Yes, I cer­tain­ly do know that you have seen and done much since leav­ing us,” he said qui­et­ly. “Ru­mors of your do­in­gs have reached your old school, Tom. I should be sor­ry to be­lieve half of them.”

Volde­mort’s ex­pres­sion re­mained im­pas­sive as he said, “Great­ness in­spires en­vy, en­vy en­gen­ders spite, spite spawns lies. You must know this, Dum­ble­dore.”

“You call it ‘great­ness,’ what you have been do­ing, do you?” asked Dum­ble­dore del­icate­ly.

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Volde­mort, and his eyes seemed to burn red. “I have ex­per­iment­ed; I have pushed the bound­aries of mag­ic fur­ther, per­haps, than they have ev­er been pushed —”

“Of some kinds of mag­ic,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed him qui­et­ly. “Of some. Of oth­ers, you re­main . . . for­give me . . . woe­ful­ly ig­no­rant.”

For the first time, Volde­mort smiled. It was a taut leer, an evil thing, more threat­en­ing than a look of rage.

“The old ar­gu­ment,” he said soft­ly. “But noth­ing I have seen in the world has sup­port­ed your fa­mous pro­nounce­ments that love is more pow­er­ful than my kind of mag­ic, Dum­ble­dore.”

“Per­haps you have been look­ing in the wrong places,” sug­gest­ed Dum­ble­dore.

“Well, then, what bet­ter place to start my fresh re­search­es than here, at Hog­warts?” said Volde­mort. “Will you let me re­turn? Will you let me share my knowl­edge with your stu­dents? I place my­self and my tal­ents at your dis­pos­al. I am yours to com­mand.”

Dum­ble­dore raised his eye­brows. “And what will be­come of those whom you com­mand? What will hap­pen to those who call them­selves — or so ru­mor has it — the Death Eaters?”

Har­ry could tell that Volde­mort had not ex­pect­ed Dum­ble­dore to know this name; he saw Volde­mort’s eyes flash red again and the slit­like nos­trils flare.

“My friends,” he said, af­ter a mo­ment’s pause, “will car­ry on with­out me, I am sure.”

“I am glad to hear that you con­sid­er them friends,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I was un­der the im­pres­sion that they are more in the or­der of ser­vants.”

“You are mis­tak­en,” said Volde­mort.

“Then if I were to go to the Hog’s Head tonight, I would not find a group of them — Nott, Rosier, Muld­ber, Do­lo­hov — await­ing your re­turn? De­vot­ed friends in­deed, to trav­el this far with you on a snowy night, mere­ly to wish you luck as you at­tempt­ed to se­cure a teach­ing post.”

There could be no doubt that Dum­ble­dore’s de­tailed knowl­edge of those with whom he was trav­el­ing was even less wel­come to Volde­mort; how­ev­er, he ral­lied al­most at once.

“You are om­ni­sci­ent as ev­er, Dum­ble­dore.”

“Oh no, mere­ly friend­ly with the lo­cal bar­men,” said Dum­ble­dore light­ly. “Now, Tom . . .”

Dum­ble­dore set down his emp­ty glass and drew him­self up in his seat, the tips of his fin­gers to­geth­er in a very char­ac­ter­is­tic ges­ture.

“Let us speak open­ly. Why have you come here tonight, sur­round­ed by hench­men, to re­quest a job we both know you do not want?”

Volde­mort looked cold­ly sur­prised. “A job I do not want? On the con­trary, Dum­ble­dore, I want it very much.”

“Oh, you want to come back to Hog­warts, but you do not want to teach any more than you want­ed to when you were eigh­teen. What is it you’re af­ter, Tom? Why not try an open re­quest for once?”

Volde­mort sneered. “If you do not want to give me a job —”

“Of course I don’t,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And I don’t think for a mo­ment you ex­pect­ed me to. Nev­er­the­less, you came here, you asked, you must have had a pur­pose.”

Volde­mort stood up. He looked less like Tom Rid­dle than ev­er, his fea­tures thick with rage. “This is your fi­nal word?”

“It is,” said Dum­ble­dore, al­so stand­ing.

“Then we have noth­ing more to say to each oth­er.”

“No, noth­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore, and a great sad­ness filled his face. “The time is long gone when I could fright­en you with a burn­ing wardrobe and force you to make re­pay­ment for your crimes. But I wish I could, Tom. … I wish I could. . . .”

For a sec­ond, Har­ry was on the verge of shout­ing a point­less warn­ing: He was sure that Volde­mort’s hand had twitched to­ward his pock­et and his wand; but then the mo­ment had passed, Volde­mort had turned away, the door was clos­ing, and he was gone.

Har­ry felt Dum­ble­dore’s hand close over his arm again and mo­ments lat­er, they were stand­ing to­geth­er on al­most the same spot, but there was no snow build­ing on the win­dow ledge, and Dum­ble­dore’s hand was black­ened and dead­look­ing once more.

“Why?” said Har­ry at once, look­ing up in­to Dum­ble­dore’s face. “Why did he come back? Did you ev­er find out?”

“I have ideas,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but no more than that.”

“What ideas, sir?”

“I shall tell you, Har­ry, when you have re­trieved that mem­ory from Pro­fes­sor Slughorn,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“When you have that last piece of the jig­saw, ev­ery­thing will, I hope, be clear … to both of us.”

Har­ry was still burn­ing with cu­rios­ity and even though Dum­ble­dore had walked to the door and was hold­ing it open for him, he did not move at once.

“Was he af­ter the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job again, sir? He didn’t say. …”

“Oh, he def­inite­ly want­ed the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job,” said Dum­ble­dore. “The af­ter­math of our lit­tle meet­ing proved that. You see, we have nev­er been able to keep a De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er for longer than a year since I re­fused the post to Lord Volde­mort.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 21: The Unknowable Room


Har­ry wracked his brains over the next week as to how he was to per­suade Slughorn to hand over the true mem­ory, but noth­ing in the na­ture of a brain wave oc­curred and he was re­duced to do­ing what he did in­creas­ing­ly these days when at a loss: por­ing over his Po­tions book, hop­ing that the Prince would have scrib­bled some­thing use­ful in a mar­gin, as he had done so many times be­fore.

“You won’t find any­thing in there,” said Hermione firm­ly, late on Sun­day evening.

“Don’t start, Hermione,” said Har­ry. “If it hadn’t been for the Prince, Ron wouldn’t be sit­ting here now.”

“He would if you’d just lis­tened to Snape in our first year,” said Hermione dis­mis­sive­ly.

Har­ry ig­nored her. He had just found an in­can­ta­tion “Sec­tum­sem­pra!” scrawled in a mar­gin above the in­trigu­ing words “For en­emies,” and was itch­ing to try it out, but thought it best not to in front of Hermione. In­stead, he sur­rep­ti­tious­ly fold­ed down the cor­ner of the page. They were sit­ting be­side the fire in the com­mon room; the on­ly oth­er peo­ple awake were fel­low sixth years. There had been a cer­tain amount of ex­cite­ment ear­li­er when they had come back from din­ner to find a new sign on the no­tice board that an­nounced the date for their Ap­pari­tion Test. Those who would be sev­en­teen on or be­fore the first test date, the twen­ty­first of April, had the op­tion of sign­ing up for ad­di­tion­al prac­tice ses­sions, which would take place (heav­ily su­per­vised) in Hogsmeade.

Ron had pan­icked on read­ing this no­tice; he had still not man­aged to Ap­pa­rate and feared he would not be ready for the test. Hermione, who had now achieved Ap­pari­tion twice, was a lit­tle more con­fi­dent, but Har­ry, who would not be sev­en­teen for an­oth­er four months, could not take the test whether ready or not.

“At least you can Ap­pa­rate, though!” said Ron tense­ly. “You’ll have no trou­ble come Ju­ly!”

“I’ve on­ly done it once,” Har­ry re­mind­ed him; he had fi­nal­ly man­aged to dis­ap­pear and re­ma­te­ri­al­ize in­side his hoop dur­ing their pre­vi­ous les­son.

Hav­ing wast­ed a lot of time wor­ry­ing aloud about Ap­pari­tion, Ron was now strug­gling to fin­ish a vi­cious­ly dif­fi­cult es­say for Snape that Har­ry and Hermione had al­ready com­plet­ed. Har­ry ful­ly ex­pect­ed to re­ceive low marks on his, be­cause he had dis­agreed with Snape on the best way to tack­le de­men­tors, but he did not care: Slughorns mem­ory was the most im­por­tant thing to him now.

“I’m telling you, the stupid Prince isn’t go­ing to be able to help you with this, Har­ry!” said Hermione, more loud­ly. “There’s on­ly one way to force some­one to do what you want, and that’s the Im­perius Curse, which is il­le­gal —”

“Yeah, I know that, thanks,” said Har­ry, not look­ing up from the book. “That’s why I’m look­ing for some­thing dif­fer­ent. Dum­ble­dorf says Ver­itaserum won’t do it, but there might be some­thing else, a po­tion or a spell. . . .”

“You’re go­ing about it the wrong way,” said Hermione. “On­ly you can get the mem­ory, Dum­ble­dore says. That must mean you can per­suade Slughorn where oth­er peo­ple can’t. It’s not a ques­tion of slip­ping him a po­tion, any­one could do that —”

“How do you spell ‘bel­liger­ent’?” said Ron, shak­ing his quill very hard while star­ing at his parch­ment. “It can’t be B — U — M —”

“No, it isn’t,” said Hermione, pulling Ron’s es­say to­ward her. “And ‘au­gury’ doesn’t be­gin O — R — G ei­ther. What kind of quill are you us­ing?”

“It’s one of Fred and George’s SpellCheck ones, but I think the charm must be wear­ing off.”

“Yes, it must,” said Hermione, point­ing at the ti­tle of his es­say, “be­cause we were asked how we’d deal with de­men­tors, not ‘Dug­bogs’, and I don’t re­mem­ber you chang­ing your name to ‘Roonil Wa­zlib’ ei­ther.”

“Ah no!” said Ron, star­ing hor­rorstruck at the parch­ment. “Don’t say I’ll have to write the whole thing out again!”

“It’s okay, we can fix it,” said Hermione, pulling the es­say to­ward her and tak­ing out her wand.

“I love you, Hermione,” said Ron, sink­ing back in his chair, rub­bing his eyes weari­ly. Hermione turned faint­ly pink, but mere­ly said, “Don’t let Laven­der hear you say­ing that.”

“1 won’t,” said Ron in­to his hands. “Or maybe I will, then she’ll ditch me.”

“Why don’t you ditch her if you want to fin­ish it?” asked Har­ry.

“You haven’t ev­er chucked any­one, have you?” said Ron. “You and Cho just —”

“Sort of fell apart, yeah,” said Har­ry.

“Wish that would hap­pen with me and Laven­der,” said Ron gloo­mi­ly, watch­ing Hermione silent­ly tap­ping each of his mis­spelled words with the end of her wand, so that they cor­rect­ed them­selves on the page. “But the more I hint I want to fin­ish it, the tighter she holds on. It’s like go­ing out with the gi­ant squid.”

“There,” said Hermione, some twen­ty min­utes lat­er, hand­ing back Ron’s es­say.

“Thanks a mil­li­on,” said Ron. “Can I bor­row your quill for the con­clu­sion?” Har­ry, who had found noth­ing use­ful in the Half­Blood Prince’s notes so far, looked around; the three of them were now the on­ly ones left in the com­mon room, Sea­mus hav­ing just gone up to bed curs­ing Snape and his es­say. The on­ly sounds were the crack­ling of the fire and Ron scratch­ing out one last para­graph on de­men­tors us­ing Hermione’s quill. Har­ry had just closed the Half­Blood Prince’s book, yawn­ing, when —

Crack!

Hermione let out a lit­tle shriek; Ron spilled ink all over his fresh­ly com­plet­ed es­say, and Har­ry said, “Kreach­er!”

The house­elf bowed low and ad­dressed his own gnarled toes. “Mas­ter said he want­ed reg­ular re­ports on what the Mal­foy boy is do­ing, so Kreach­er has come to give–“

Crack!

Dob­by ap­peared along­side Kreach­er, his tea­cozy hat askew. “Dob­by has been help­ing too, Har­ry Pot­ter!” he squeaked, cast­ing Kreach­er a re­sent­ful look. “And Kreach­er ought to tell Dob­by when he is com­ing to see Har­ry Pot­ter so they can make their re­ports to­geth­er!”

“What is this?” asked Hermione, still look­ing shocked by these sud­den ap­pear­an­ces. “What’s go­ing on, Har­ry?” Har­ry hes­itat­ed be­fore an­swer­ing, be­cause he had not told Her­mione about set­ting Kreach­er and Dob­by to tail Mal­foy; house­elves were al­ways such a touchy sub­ject with her.

“Well. . . they’ve been fol­low­ing Mal­foy for me,” he said.

“Night and day,” croaked Kreach­er.

“Dob­by has not slept for a week, Har­ry Pot­ter!” said Dob­by proud­ly, sway­ing where he stood. Hermione looked in­dig­nant.

“You haven’t slept, Dob­by? But sure­ly, Har­ry, you didn’t tell him not to —”

“No, of course I didn’t,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Dob­by, you can sleep, all right? But has ei­ther of you found out any­thing?” he has­tened to ask, be­fore Hermione could in­ter­vene again.

“Mas­ter Mal­foy moves with a no­bil­ity that be­fits his pure blood,” croaked Kreach­er at once. “His fea­tures re­call the fine bones of my mis­tress and his man­ners are those of—”

“Dra­co Mal­foy is a bad boy!” squeaked Dob­by an­gri­ly. “A bad boy who — who —” He shud­dered from the tas­sel of his tea cozy to the toes of his socks and then ran at the fire, as though about to dive in­to it. Har­ry, to whom this was not en­tire­ly un­ex­pect­ed, caught him around the mid­dle and held him fast. For a few sec­onds Dob­by strug­gled, then went limp.

“Thank you, Har­ry Pot­ter,” he pant­ed. “Dob­by still finds it dif­fi­cult to speak ill of his old mas­ters.” Har­ry re­leased him; Dob­by straight­ened his tea cozy and said de­fi­ant­ly to Kreach­er, “But Kreach­er should know that Dra­co Mal­foy is not a good mas­ter to a house­elf!”

“Yeah, we don’t need to hear about you be­ing in love with Mal­foy,” Har­ry told Kreach­er. “Let’s fast for­ward to where he’s ac­tu­al­ly been go­ing.”

Kreach­er bowed again, look­ing fu­ri­ous, and then said, “Mas­ter Mal­foy eats in the Great Hall, he sleeps in a dor­mi­to­ry in the dun­geons, he at­tends his class­es in a va­ri­ety of—”

“Dob­by, you tell me,” said Har­ry, cut­ting across Kreach­er. “Has he been go­ing any­where he shouldn’t have?”

“Har­ry Pot­ter, sir,” squeaked Dob­by, his great or­blike eyes shin­ing in the fire­light, “the Mal­foy boy is break­ing no rules that Dob­by can dis­cov­er, but he is still keen to avoid de­tec­tion. He has been mak­ing reg­ular vis­its to the sev­enth floor with a va­ri­ety of oth­er stu­dents, who keep watch for him while he en­ters —”

“The Room of Re­quire­ment!” said Har­ry, smack­ing him­self hard on the fore­head with Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing. Hermione and Ron stared at him. “That’s where he’s been sneak­ing off to! That’s where he’s do­ing… what­ev­er he’s do­ing! And I bet that’s why he’s been dis­ap­pear­ing off the map — come to think of it, I’ve nev­er seen the Room of Re­quire­ment on there!”

“Maybe the Ma­raud­ers nev­er knew the room was there,” said Ron.

“I think it’ll be part of the mag­ic of the room,” said Hermione. “If you need it to be un­plot­ta­ble, it will be.”

“Dob­by, have you man­aged to get in to have a look at what Mal­foy’s do­ing?” said Har­ry ea­ger­ly.

“No, Har­ry Pot­ter, that is im­pos­si­ble,” said Dob­by.

“No, it’s not,” said Har­ry at once. “Mal­foy got in­to our head­quar­ters there last year, so I’ll be able to get in and spy on him, no prob­lem.”

“But I don’t think you will, Har­ry,” said Hermione slow­ly. “Mal­foy al­ready knew ex­act­ly how we were us­ing the room, didn’t he, be­cause that stupid Ma­ri­et­ta had blabbed. He need­ed the room to be­come the head­quar­ters of the D.A., so it did. But you don’t know what the room be­comes when Mal­foy goes in there, so you don’t know what to ask it to trans­form in­to.”

“There’ll be a way around that,” said Har­ry dis­mis­sive­ly. “You’ve done bril­liant­ly, Dob­by.”

“Kreach­ers done well too,” said Hermione kind­ly; but far from look­ing grate­ful, Kreach­er avert­ed his huge, blood­shot eyes and croaked at the ceil­ing, “The Mud­blood is speak­ing to Kreach­er, Kreach­er will pre­tend he can­not hear —”

“Get out of it,” Har­ry snapped at him, and Kreach­er made one last deep bow and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed. “You’d bet­ter go and get some sleep too, Dob­by.”

“Thank you, Har­ry Pot­ter, sir!” squeaked Dob­by hap­pi­ly, and he too van­ished.

“How good is this?” said Har­ry en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, turn­ing to Ron and Hermione the mo­ment the room was elf­free again. “We know where Mal­foy’s go­ing! We’ve got him cor­nered now!”

“Yeah, it’s great,” said Ron glum­ly, who was at­tempt­ing to mop up the sod­den mass of ink chat had re­cent­ly been an al­most com­plet­ed es­say. Hermione pulled it to­ward her and be­gan si­phon­ing the ink off with her wand.

“But what’s all this about him go­ing up there with a va­ri­ety of stu­dents’?” said Hermione. “How many peo­ple are in on it? You wouldn’t think he’d trust lots of them to know what he’s do­ing—“

“Yeah, that is weird,” said Har­ry, frown­ing. “I heard him telling Crabbe it wasn’t Crabbe’s busi­ness what he was do­ing… so what’s he telling all these… all these…” Har­ry’s voice tailed away; he was star­ing at the fire. “God, I’ve been stupid,” he said qui­et­ly. “Its ob­vi­ous, isn’t it? There was a great vat of it down in the dun­geon. . . . He could’ve nicked some any time dur­ing that les­son. . . .”

“Nicked what?” said Ron.

“Polyjuice Po­tion. He stole some of the Polyjuice Po­tion Slughorn showed us in our first Po­tions les­son… There aren’t a whole va­ri­ety of stu­dents stand­ing guard for Mal­foy… it’s just Crabbe and Goyle as usu­al. …Yeah, it all fits!” said Har­ry, jump­ing up and start­ing to pace in front of the fire. “They’re stupid enough to do what they’re told even if he won’t tell them what he’s up to, but he doesn’t want them to be seen lurk­ing around out­side the Room of Re­quire­ment, so he’s got them tak­ing Polyjuice to make them look like oth­er peo­ple… Those two girls I saw him with when he missed Quid­ditch — ha! Crabbe and Goyle!”

“Do you mean to say,” said Hermione in a hushed voice, “that that lit­tle girl whose scales I re­paired — ?”

“Yeah, of course!” said Har­ry loud­ly, star­ing at her. “Of course! Mal­foy must’ve been in­side the room at the time, so she — what am I talk­ing about? — he dropped the scales to tell Mal­foy not to corne out, be­cause there was some­one there! And there was that girl who dropped the toad­spawn too! We’ve been walk­ing past him all the time and not re­al­iz­ing it!”

“He’s got Crabbe and Goyle trans­form­ing in­to girls?” guf­fawed Ron. “Blimey… no won­der they don’t look too hap­py these days. I’m sur­prised they don’t tell him to stuff it.”

“Well, they wouldn’t, would they, if he’s shown them his Dark Mark?” said Har­ry.

“Hm­mm… the Dark Mark we don’t know ex­ists,” said Her­mi­one skep­ti­cal­ly, rolling up Ron’s dried es­say be­fore it could come to any more harm and hand­ing it to him.

“We’ll see” said Har­ry con­fi­dent­ly.

“Yes, we will,” Hermione said, get­ting to her feet and stretch­ing. “But, Har­ry, be­fore you get all ex­cit­ed, I still don’t think you’ll be able to get in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment with­out know­ing what’s there first’. And I don’t think you should for­get” — she heaved her bag on­to her shoul­der and gave him a very se­ri­ous look — “that what you’re sup­posed to be con­cen­trat­ing on is get­ting that mem­ory from Slughorn. Good night.”

Har­ry watched her go, feel­ing slight­ly dis­grun­tled. Once the door to the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries had closed be­hind her he round­ed on Ron. “What d’you think?”

“Wish I could Dis­ap­pa­rate like a house­elf,” said Ron, star­ing at the spot where Dob­by had van­ished. “I’d have that Ap­pari­tion Test in the bag.”

Har­ry did not sleep well that night. He lay awake for what felt like hours, won­der­ing how Mal­foy was us­ing the Room of Re­quire­ment and what he, Har­ry, would see when he went in there the fol­low­ing day, for what­ev­er Hermione said, Har­ry was sure that if Mal­foy had-=- been able to see the head­quar­ters of the D.A., he would be able to see Mal­foy’s, what could it be? A meet­ing place? A hide­out? A ston room? A work­shop? Har­rys mind worked fever­ish­ly and his dreams, when he fi­nal­ly fell asleep, were bro­ken and dis­turbed by im­ages of Mal­foy, who turned in­to Slughorn, who turned in­to Snape…

Har­ry was in a state of great an­tic­ipa­tion over break­fast the fol­low­ing morn­ing; he had a free pe­ri­od be­fore De­fense Against the Dark Arts and was de­ter­mined to spend it try­ing to get in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment. Hermione was rather os­ten­ta­tious­ly show­ing no in­ter­est in his whis­pered plans for forc­ing en­try in­to the room, which ir­ri­tat­ed Har­ry, be­cause he thought she might be a lot of help if she want­ed to.

“Look,” he said qui­et­ly, lean­ing for­ward and putting a hand on the Dai­ly Prophet, which she had just re­moved from a post owl, to stop her from open­ing it and van­ish­ing be­hind it. “I haven’t for­got­ten about Slughorn, but I haven’t got a clue how to get that mem­ory off him, and un­til I get a brain wave why shouldn’t I find out what Mal­foy’s do­ing?”

“I’ve al­ready told you, you need to per­suade Slughorn,” said Her­mione. “It’s not a ques­tion of trick­ing him or be­witch­ing him, or Dum­ble­dore could have done it in a sec­ond. In­stead of mess­ing around out­side the Room of Re­quire­ment” — she jerked the Prophet out from un­der Har­rys hand and un­fold­ed it to look at the front page — “you should go and find Slughorn and start ap­peal­ing to his bet­ter na­ture.”

“Any­one we know — ?” asked Ron, as Hermione scanned the head­lines.

“Yes!” said Hermione, caus­ing both Har­ry and Ron to gag on their break­fast. “But it’s all right, he’s not dead — its Mundun­gus, he’s been ar­rest­ed and sent to Azk­aban! Some­thing to do with im­per­son­at­ing an In­ferius dur­ing an at­tempt­ed bur­glary, and some­one called Oc­tavius Pep­per has van­ished. Oh, and how hor­ri­ble, a nineyearold boy has been ar­rest­ed for try­ing to kill his grand­par­ents, they think he was un­der the Im­perius Curse.”

They fin­ished their break­fast in si­lence. Hermione set off imme­di­ate­ly for An­cient Runes; Ron for the com­mon room, where he still had to fin­ish his con­clu­sion on Snape’s de­men­tor es­say, and Har­ry for the cor­ri­dor on the sev­enth floor and the stretch of wall op­po­site the tapestry of Barn­abas the Barmy teach­ing trolls to do bal­let.

Har­ry slipped on his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak once he had found an emp­ty pas­sage, but he need not have both­ered. When he reached his des­ti­na­tion he found it de­sert­ed. Har­ry was not sure whether his chances of get­ting in­side the room were bet­ter with Mal­foy in­side it or out, but at least his first at­tempt was not go­ing to be com­pli­cat­ed by the pres­ence of Crabbe or Goyle pre­tend­ing to be an elevenyearold girl.

He closed his eyes as he ap­proached the place where the Room of Re­quire­ment’s door was con­cealed. He knew what he had to do; he had be­come most ac­com­plished at it last year. Con­cen­trat­ing with all his might he thought, “I need to see what Mal­foy’s do­ing in here… I need to see what Mal­foy’s do­ing in here… I need to see what Mal­foy’s do­ing in here…”

Three times he walked past the door; then, his heart pound­ing with ex­cite­ment, he opened his eyes and faced it — but he was still look­ing at a stretch of mun­dane­ly blank wall. He moved for­ward and gave it an ex­per­imen­tal push. The stone re­mained sol­id and un­yield­ing.

“Okay,” said Har­ry aloud. “Okay… I thought the wrong thing…” He pon­dered for a mo­ment then set off again, eyes closed, con­cen­trat­ing as hard as he could. “I need to see the place where Mal­foy keeps com­ing se­cret­ly… I need to see the place where Mal­foy keeps com­ing se­cret­ly…” Af­ter three walks past, he opened his eyes ex­pec­tant­ly.

There was no door.

“Oh, come off it,” he told the wall ir­ri­ta­bly. “That was a clear in­struc­tion. Fine.” He thought hard for sev­er­al min­utes be­fore strid­ing off once more. “I need you to be­come the place you be­come for Dra­co Mal­foy…”

He did not im­me­di­ate­ly open his eyes when he had fin­ished his pa­trolling; he was lis­ten­ing hard, as though he might hear the door pop in­to ex­is­tence. He heard noth­ing, how­ev­er, ex­cept the dis­tant twit­ter­ing of birds out­side. He opened his eyes.

There was still no door.

Har­ry swore. Some­one screamed. He looked around to see a gag­gle of first years run­ning back around the cor­ner, ap­par­ent­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that they had just en­coun­tered a par­tic­ular­ly foul­mouthed ghost.

Har­ry tried ev­ery vari­ation of “I need to see what Dra­co Mal­foy is do­ing in­side you” that he could think of for a whole hour, at the end of which he was forced to con­cede that Hermione might have had a point: The room sim­ply did not want to open for him. Frus­trat­ed and an­noyed, he set off for De­fense Against the Dark Arts, pulling off his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and stuff­ing it in­to his bag as he went.

“Late again, Pot­ter,” said Snape cold­ly, as Har­ry hur­ried in­to the can­dlelit class­room. “Ten points from Gryfrindor.” Har­ry scowled at Snape as he flung him­self in­to the seat be­side Ron. Half the class were still on their feet, tak­ing out books and or­ga­niz­ing their things; he could not be much lat­er than any of them.

“Be­fore we start, I want your de­men­tor es­says,” said Snape, wav­ing his wand care­less­ly, so that twen­ty­five scrolls of parch­ment soared in­to the air and land­ed in a neat pile on his desk. “And I hope for your sakes they are bet­ter than the tripe I had to en­dure on re­sist­ing the Im­perius Curse. Now, if you will all open your books to page — what is it, Mr. Finni­gan?”

“Sir,” said Sea­mus, “I’ve been won­der­ing, how do you tell the dif­fer­ence be­tween an In­ferius and a ghost? Be­cause there was some­thing in the pa­per about an In­ferius —”

“No, there wasn’t,” said Snape in a bored voice.

“But sir, I heard peo­ple talk­ing —”

“If you had ac­tu­al­ly read the ar­ti­cle in ques­tion, Mr. Finni­gan, you would have known that the so­called In­ferius was noth­ing but a smelly sneak thief by the name of Mundun­gus Fletch­er.”

“I thought Snape and Mundun­gus were on the same side,” mut­tered Har­ry to Ron and Hermione. “Shouldn’t he be up­set Mun­dun­gus has been ar­rest —”

“But Pot­ter seems to have a lot to say on the sub­ject,” said Snape, point­ing sud­den­ly at the back of the room, his black eyes fixed on Har­ry. “Let us ask Pot­ter how we would tell the dif­fer­ence be­tween an In­ferius and a ghost.”

The whole class looked around at Har­ry, who hasti­ly tried to re­call what Dum­ble­dore had told him the night that they had gone to vis­it Slughorn. “Er — well — ghosts are trans­par­ent —” he said.

“Oh, very good,” in­ter­rupt­ed Snape, his lip curl­ing. “Yes, it in easy to see that near­ly six years of mag­ical ed­uca­tion have not been wast­ed on you, Pot­ter. ‘Ghosts are trans­par­ent.”‘

Pan­sy Parkin­son let out a high­pitched gig­gle. Sev­er­al oth­er peo­ple were smirk­ing. Har­ry took a deep breath and con­tin­ued calm­ly, though his in­sides were boil­ing, “Yeah, ghosts are trans­par­ent, but In­feri are dead bod­ies, aren’t they? So they’d be sol­id —”

“A fiveyearold could have told us as much,” sneered Snape. “The In­ferius is a corpse that has been re­an­imat­ed by a Dark wiz­ard’s spells. It is not alive, it is mere­ly used like a pup­pet to do the wiz­ard’s bid­ding. A ghost, as I trust that you are all aware by now, is the im­print of a de­part­ed soul left up­on the earth, and of course, as Pot­ter so wise­ly tells us, trans­par­ent. “

“Well, what Har­ry said is the most use­ful if we’re try­ing to tell them apart!” said Ron. “When we come faceto­face with one down a dark al­ley, we’re go­ing to be hav­ing a look to see if its sol­id, aren’t we, we’re not go­ing to be ask­ing, ‘Ex­cuse me, are you the im­print of a de­part­ed soul?’” There was a rip­ple of laugh­ter, in­stant­ly quelled by the look Snape gave the class.

“An­oth­er ten points from Gryffind­or,” said Snape. “I would ex­pect noth­ing more so­phis­ti­cat­ed from you, Ronald Weasley, the boy so sol­id he can­not Ap­pa­rate half an inch across a room.”

“No!” whis­pered Hermione, grab­bing Har­rys arm as he opened his mouth fu­ri­ous­ly. “There’s no point, you’ll just end up in de­ten­tion again, leave it!”

“Now open your books to page two hun­dred and thir­teen,” said Snape, smirk­ing a lit­tle, “and read the first two para­graphs on the Cru­cia­tus Curse.”

Ron was very sub­dued all through the class. When the bell sound­ed at the end of the les­son, Laven­der caught up with Ron and Har­ry (Hermione mys­te­ri­ous­ly melt­ed out of sight as she ap­proached) and abused Snape hot­ly for his jibe about Ron’s Ap­pari­tion, but this seemed to mere­ly ir­ri­tate Ron, and he shook her off by mak­ing a de­tour in­to the boys’ bath­room with Har­ry.

“Snape’s right, though, isn’t he?” said Ron, af­ter star­ing in­to a cracked mir­ror for a minute or two. “I dun­no whether it’s worth me tak­ing the test. I just can’t get the hang of Ap­pari­tion.”

“You might as well do the ex­tra prac­tice ses­sions in Hogsmeade and see where they get you,” said Har­ry rea­son­ably. “It’ll be more in­ter­est­ing than try­ing to get in­to a stupid hoop any­way. Then, if you’re still not — you know — as good as you’d like to be, you can post­pone the test, do it with me over the sum­mer — Myr­tle, this is the boys’ bath­room!”

The ghost of a girl had risen out of the toi­let in a cu­bi­cle be­hind them and was now float­ing in midair, star­ing at them through thick, white, round glass­es. “Oh,” she said glum­ly. “It’s you two.”

“Who were you ex­pect­ing?” said Ron, look­ing at her in the mir­ror.

“No­body,” said Myr­tle, pick­ing mood­ily at a spot on her chin. “He said he’d come back and see me, but then you said you’d pop in and vis­it me too” — she gave Har­ry a re­proach­ful look — “and I haven’t seen you for months and months. I’ve learned not to ex­pect too much from boys.”

“I thought you lived in that girls’ bath­room?” said Har­ry, who had been care­ful to give the place a wide berth for some years now.

“I do,” she said, with a sulky lit­tle shrug, “but that doesn’t mean I cant vis­it oth­er places. I came and saw you in your bath once, re­mem­ber?”

“Vivid­ly,” said Har­ry.

“But I thought he liked me,” she said plain­tive­ly. “Maybe if you two left, he’d come back again. We had lots in com­mon. I’m sure he felt it.”

And she looked hope­ful­ly to­ward the door. “When you say you had lots in com­mon,” said Ron, sound­ing rather amused now, “d’you mean he lives in an Sbend too?”

“No,” said Myr­tle de­fi­ant­ly, her voice echo­ing loud­ly around the old tiled bath­room. “I mean he’s sen­si­tive, peo­ple bul­ly him too, and he feels lone­ly and hasn’t got any­body to talk to, and he’s not afraid to show his feel­in­gs and cry!”

“There’s been a boy in here cry­ing?” said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly. “A young boy?”

“Nev­er you mind!” said Myr­tle, her small, leaky eyes fixed on Ron, who was now def­inite­ly grin­ning. “I promised I wouldn’t tell any­one, and I’ll take his se­cret to the —”

“— not the grave, sure­ly?” said Ron with a snort. “The sew­ers, maybe.” Myr­tle gave a howl of rage and dived back in­to the toi­let, caus­ing wa­ter to slop over the sides and on­to the floor. Goad­ing Myr­tle seemed to have put fresh heart in­to Ron. “You’re right,” he said, swing­ing his school­bag back over his shoul­der, “I’ll do the prac­tice ses­sions in Hogsmeade be­fore I de­cide about tak­ing the test.”

And so the fol­low­ing week­end, Ron joined Hermione and the rest of the sixth years who would turn sev­en­teen in time to take the test in a fort­night. Har­ry felt rather jeal­ous watch­ing them all get ready to go in­to the vil­lage; he missed mak­ing trips there, and it was a par­tic­ular­ly fine spring day, one of the first clear skies they had seen in a long time. How­ev­er, he had de­cid­ed to use the time to at­tempt an­oth­er as­sault on the Room of Re­quire­ment.

“You’d do bet­ter,” said Hermione, when he con­fid­ed this plan to Ron and her in the en­trance hall, “to go straight to Slughorn’s of­fice and try and get that mem­ory from him.”

“I’ve been try­ing!” said Har­ry cross­ly, which was per­fect­ly true. He had lagged be­hind af­ter ev­ery Po­tions les­son that week in an at­tempt to cor­ner Slughorn, but the Po­tions mas­ter al­ways left the dun­geon so fast that Har­ry had not been able to catch him. Twice, Har­ry had gone to his of­fice and knocked, but re­ceived no re­ply, though on the sec­ond oc­ca­sion he was sure he had heard the quick­ly sti­fled sounds of an old gramo­phone.

“He doesn’t want to talk to me, Hermione! He can tell I’ve been try­ing to get him on his own again, and he’s not go­ing to let it hap­pen!”

“Well, you’ve just got to keep at it, haven’t you?”

The short queue of peo­ple wait­ing to file past Filch, who was do­ing his usu­al prod­ding act with the Se­cre­cy Sen­sor, moved for­ward a few steps and Har­ry did not an­swer in case he was over­heard by the care­tak­er. He wished Ron and Hermione both luck, then turned and climbed the mar­ble stair­case again, de­ter­mined, what­ev­er Her­mione said, to de­vote an hour or two to the Room of Re­quire­ment.

Once out of sight of the en­trance hall, Har­ry pulled the Ma­raud­er’s Map and his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from his bag. Hav­ing con­cealed him­self, he tapped the map, mur­mured, “I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good,” and scanned it care­ful­ly.

As it was Sun­day morn­ing, near­ly all the stu­dents were in­side their var­ious com­mon rooms, the Gryffind­ors in one tow­er, the Raven­claws in an­oth­er, the Slytherins in the dun­geons, and the Huf­flepuffs in the base­ment near the kitchens. Here and there a stray per­son me­an­dered around the li­brary or up a cor­ri­dor. There were a few peo­ple out in the grounds, and there, alone in the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor, was Gre­go­ry Goyle. There was no sign of the Room of Re­quire­ment, but Har­ry was not wor­ried about that; if Goyle was stand­ing guard out­side it, the room was open, whether the map was aware of it or not. He there­fore sprint­ed up the stairs, slow­ing down on­ly when he reached the cor­ner in­to the cor­ri­dor, when he be­gan to creep, very slow­ly, to­ward the very same lit­tle girl, clutch­ing her heavy brass scales, that Hermione had so kind­ly helped a fort­night be­fore. He wait­ed un­til he was right be­hind her be­fore bend­ing very low and whis­per­ing, “Hel­lo…you’re very pret­ty, aren’t you?”

Goyle gave a high­pitched scream of ter­ror, threw the scales up in­to the air, and sprint­ed away, van­ish­ing from sight long be­fore the sound of the scales smash­ing had stopped echo­ing around the cor­ri­dor. Laugh­ing, Har­ry turned to con­tem­plate the blank wall be­hind which, he was sure, Dra­co Mal­foy was now stand­ing frozen, aware that some­one un­wel­come was out there, but not dar­ing to make an ap­pear­an­ce. It gave Har­ry a most agree­able feel­ing of pow­er as he tried to re­mem­ber what form of words he had not yet tried.

Yet this hope­ful mood did not last long. Half an hour lat­er, hav­ing tried many more vari­ations of his re­quest to see what Mal­foy was up to, the wall was just as door­less as ev­er. Har­ry felt frus­trat­ed be­yond be­lief-=Mal­foy might be just feet away from him, and there was still not the ti­ni­est shred of ev­idence as to what he was do­ing in there. Los­ing his pa­tience com­plete­ly, Har­ry ran at the wall and kicked it.

“OUCH!”

He thought he might have bro­ken his toe; as he clutched it and hopped on one foot, the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak slipped off him.

“Har­ry?”

He spun around, one­legged, and top­pled over. There, to his ut­ter as­ton­ish­ment, was Tonks, walk­ing to­ward him as though she fre­quent­ly strolled up this cor­ri­dor.

“What’re you do­ing here?” he said, scram­bling to his feet again; why did she al­ways have to find him ly­ing on the floor?

“I came to see Dum­ble­dore,” said Tonks. Har­ry thought she looked ter­ri­ble: thin­ner than usu­al, her mousec­ol­ored hair lank.

“His of­fice isn’t here,” said Har­ry, “it’s round the oth­er side of the cas­tle, be­hind the gar­goyle —”

“I know,” said Tonks. “He’s not there. Ap­par­ent­ly he’s gone away again.”

“Has he?” said Har­ry, putting his bruised foot gin­ger­ly back on the floor. “Hey — you don’t know where he goes, I sup­pose?”

“No,” said Tonks.

“What did you want to see him about?”

“Noth­ing in par­tic­ular,” said Tonks, pick­ing, ap­par­ent­ly un­con­scious­ly, at the sleeve of her robe. “I just thought he might know what’s go­ing on. I’ve heard ru­mors… peo­ple get­ting hurt.”

“Yeah, I know, it’s all been in the pa­pers,” said Har­ry. “That lit­tle kid try­ing to kill his —”

“The Prophet’s of­ten be­hind the times,” said Tonks, who didn’t seem to be lis­ten­ing to him. “You haven’t had any let­ters from any­one in the Or­der re­cent­ly?”

“No one from the Or­der writes to me any­more,” said Har­ry, “not since Sir­ius —“ He saw that her eyes had filled with tears.

“I’m sor­ry,” he mut­tered awk­ward­ly. “I mean… I miss him, as well.”

“What?” said Tonks blankly, as though she had not heard him. “Well. I’ll see you around, Har­ry.”

And she turned abrupt­ly and walked back down the cor­ri­dor, leav­ing Har­ry to stare af­ter her. Af­ter a minute or so, he pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak on again and re­sumed his ef­forts to get in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment, but his heart was not in it. Fi­nal­ly, a hol­low feel­ing in his stom­ach and the knowl­edge that Ron and Hermione would soon be back for lunch made him aban­don the at­tempt and leave the cor­ri­dor to Mal­foy who, hope­ful­ly, would be too afraid to leave for some hours to come.

He found Ron and Hermione in the Great Hall, al­ready halfway through an ear­ly lunch.

“I did it — well, kind of!” Ron told Har­ry en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly when he caught sight of him. “I was sup­posed to be Ap­pa­rat­ing to out­side Madam Pud­di­foots Tea Shop and I over­shot it a bit, end­ed up near Scriv­en­shafts, but at least I moved!”

“Good one,” said Har­ry. “How’d you do, Hermione?”

“Oh, she was per­fect, ob­vi­ous­ly,” said Ron, be­fore Hermione could an­swer. “Per­fect de­lib­er­ation, div­ina­tion, and des­per­ation or what­ev­er the hell it is — we all went for a quick drink in the Three Broom­sticks af­ter and you should’ve heard Twycross go­ing on about her — I’ll be sur­prised if he doesn’t pop the ques­tion soon —”

“And what about you?” asked Hermione, ig­nor­ing Ron. “Have you been up at the Room of Re­quire­ment all this time?”

“Yep,” said Har­ry. “And guess who I ran in­to up there? Tonks!”

“Tonks?” re­peat­ed Ron and Hermione to­geth­er, look­ing sur­prised.

“Yeah, she said she’d come to vis­it Dum­ble­dore.”

“If you ask me,” said Ron once Har­ry had fin­ished de­scrib­ing his con­ver­sa­tion with Tonks, “she’s crack­ing up a bit. Los­ing her nerve af­ter what hap­pened at the Min­istry.”

“It’s a bit odd,” said Hermione, who for some rea­son looked very con­cerned. “She’s sup­posed to be guard­ing the school, why she sud­den­ly aban­don­ing her post to come and see Dum­ble­dore when he’s not even here?”

“I had a thought,” said Har­ry ten­ta­tive­ly. He felt strange about voic­ing it; this was much more Hermione’s ter­ri­to­ry than his. “You don’t think she can have been… you know… in love with Sir­ius?”

Hermione stared at him. “What on earth makes you say that?”

“I dun­no,” said Har­ry, shrug­ging, “but she was near­ly cry­ing when I men­tioned his name, and her Pa­tronus is a big four­legged thing now. I won­dered whether it hadn’t be­come… you know… him.”

“It’s a thought,” said Hermione slow­ly. “But I still don’t know why she’d be burst­ing in­to the cas­tle to see Dum­ble­dore, if that’s re­al­ly why she was here.”

“Goes back to what I said, doesn’t it?” said Ron, who was now shov­el­ing mashed pota­to in­to his mouth. “She’s gone a bit fun­ny. Lost her nerve. Wom­en,” he said wise­ly to Har­ry, “they’re eas­ily up­set.”

“And yet,” said Hermione, com­ing out of her rev­er­ie, “I doubt you’d find a wom­an who sulked for half an hour be­cause Madam Ros­mer­ta didn’t laugh at their joke about the hag, the Heal­er, and the Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia.”

Ron scowled.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 22: After the Burial


Patch­es of bright blue sky were be­gin­ning to ap­pear over the cas­tle tur­rets, but these signs of ap­proach­ing sum­mer did not lift Har­ry’s mood. He had been thwart­ed, both in his at­tempts to find out what Mal­foy was do­ing, and in his ef­forts to start a con­ver­sa­tion with Slughorn that might lead, some­how, to Slughorn hand­ing over the mem­ory he had ap­par­ent­ly sup­pressed for decades.

“For the last time, just for­get about Mal­foy,” Hermione told Har­ry firm­ly.

They were sit­ting with Ron in a sun­ny cor­ner of the court­yard af­ter lunch. Hermione and Ron were both clutch­ing a Min­istry of Mag­ic leaflet — Com­mon Ap­pari­tion Mis­takes and How to Avoid Them — for they were tak­ing their tests that very af­ter­noon, but by and large the leaflets had not proved sooth­ing to the nerves.

Ron gave a start and tried to hide be­hind Hermione as a girl came around the cor­ner.

“It isn’t Laven­der,” said Hermione weari­ly.

“Oh, good,” said Ron, re­lax­ing.

“Har­ry Pot­ter?” said the girl. “I was asked to give you this.”

“Thanks…”

Har­ry’s heart sank as he took the small scroll of parch­ment. Once the girl was out of earshot he said, “Dum­ble­dore said we wouldn’t be hav­ing any more lessons un­til I got the mem­ory!”

“Maybe he wants to check on how you’re do­ing?” sug­gest­ed Hermione, as Har­ry un­rolled the parch­ment; but rather than find­ing Dum­ble­dore’s long, nar­row, slant­ed writ­ing he saw an un­tidy sprawl, very dif­fi­cult to read due to the pres­ence of large blotch­es on the parch­ment where the ink had run.

Dear Har­ry, Ron and Hermione! Ar­agog died last night. Har­ry and Ron, you met him and you know how spe­cial he was. Hermione, I know you’d have liked him. It would mean a lot to me if you’d nip down for the buri­al lat­er this evening. I’m plan­ning on do­ing it round dusk, that was his fa­vorite time of day. I know you’re not sup­posed to be out that late, but you can use the cloak. Wouldn’t ask, but I can’t face it alone. Ha­grid

“Look at this,” said Har­ry, hand­ing the note to Hermione. “Oh, for heav­en’s sake,” she said, scan­ning it quick­ly and pass­ing it to Ron, who read it through look­ing in­creas­ing­ly in­cred­ulous. “He’s men­tal” he said fu­ri­ous­ly. “That thing told its mates to eat Har­ry and me! Told them to help them­selves! And now Ha­grid ex­pects us to go down there and cry over its hor­ri­ble hairy body!”

“Its not just that,” said Hermione. “He’s ask­ing us to leave the cas­tle at night and he knows se­cu­ri­ty’s a mil­li­on times tighter and how much trou­ble we’d be in if we were caught.”

“We’ve been down to see him by night be­fore,” said Har­ry.

“Yes, but for some­thing like this?” said Hermione. “We’ve risked a lot to help Ha­grid out, but af­ter all — Ar­agog’s dead. If it were a ques­tion of sav­ing him —”

“— I’d want to go even less,” said Ron firm­ly. “You didn’t meet him, Hermione. Be­lieve me, be­ing dead will have im­proved him a lot.”

Har­ry took the note back and stared down at all the inky blotch­es all over it. Tears had clear­ly fall­en thick and fast up­on the parch­ment. . . .

“Har­ry, you can’t be think­ing of go­ing,” said Hermione. “It’s such a point­less thing to get de­ten­tion for.”

Har­ry sighed. “Yeah, I know,” he said. “I s’pose Ha­grid’ll have to bury Ar­agog with­out us.”

“Yes, he will,” said Hermione, look­ing re­lieved. “Look, Po­tions will be al­most emp­ty this af­ter­noon, with us all off do­ing our tests. . . . Try and soft­en Slughorn up a bit then!”

“Fifty­sev­enth time lucky, you think?” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

“Lucky,” said Ron sud­den­ly. “Har­ry, that’s it — get lucky!”

“What d’you mean?”

“Use your lucky po­tion!”

“Ron, that’s — that’s it!” said Hermione, sound­ing stunned. “Of course! Why didn’t I think of it?”

Har­ry stared at them both. “Fe­lix Fe­li­cis?” he said. “I dun­no . . . I was sort of sav­ing it. …”

“What for?” de­mand­ed Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

“What on earth is more im­por­tant than this mem­ory, Har­ry?” asked Hermione.

Har­ry did not an­swer. The thought of that lit­tle gold­en bot­tle had hov­ered on the edges of his imag­ina­tion for some time; vague and un­for­mu­lat­ed plans that in­volved Gin­ny split­ting up with Dean, and Ron some­how be­ing hap­py to see her with a new boyfriend, had been fer­ment­ing in the depths of his brain, un­ac­knowl­edged ex­cept dur­ing dreams or the twi­light time be­tween sleep­ing and wak­ing. . . .

“Har­ry? Are you still with us?” asked Hermione.

“Wha — ? Yeah, of course,” he said, pulling him­self to­geth­er. “Well. . . okay. If I can’t get Slughorn to talk this af­ter­noon, I’ll take some Fe­lix and have an­oth­er go this evening.”

“That’s de­cid­ed, then,” said Hermione briskly, get­ting to her feet and per­form­ing a grace­ful pirou­ette. “Des­ti­na­tion . . . de­ter­mi­na­tion . . . de­lib­er­ation . . .” she mur­mured.

“Oh, stop that,” Ron begged her, “I feel sick enough as it is — quick, hide me!”

“It isn’t Laven­der!” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly, as an­oth­er cou­ple of girls ap­peared in the court­yard and Ron dived be­hind her.

“Cool,” said Ron, peer­ing over Hermiones shoul­der to check. “Blimey, they don’t look hap­py, do they?”

“They’re the Mont­gomery sis­ters and of course they don’t look hap­py, didn’t you hear what hap­pened to their lit­tle broth­er?” said Hermione.

“I’m los­ing track of what’s hap­pen­ing to ev­ery­one’s rel­atives, to be hon­est,” said Ron.

“Well, their broth­er was at­tacked by a were­wolf. The ru­mor is that their moth­er re­fused to help the Death Eaters. Any­way, the boy was on­ly five and he died in St. Mun­gos, they couldn’t save him.”

“He died?” re­peat­ed Har­ry, shocked. “But sure­ly were­wolves don’t kill, they just turn you in­to one of them?”

“They some­times kill,” said Ron, who looked un­usu­al­ly grave now. “I’ve heard of it hap­pen­ing when the were­wolf gets car­ried away.”

“What was the were­wolf’s name?” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“Well, the ru­mor is that it was that Fen­rir Grey­back,” said Hermione.

“I knew it — the ma­ni­ac who likes at­tack­ing kids, the one Lupin told me about!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

Hermione looked at him bleak­ly.

“Har­ry, you’ve got to get that mem­ory,” she said. “It’s all about stop­ping Volde­mort, isn’t it? These dread­ful things that are hap­pen­ing are all down to him. . . .”

The bell rang over­head in the cas­tle and both Hermione and Ron jumped to their feet, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

“You’ll do fine,” Har­ry told them both, as they head­ed to­ward the en­trance hall to meet the rest of the peo­ple tak­ing their Ap­pari­tion Test. “Good luck.”

“And you too!” said Hermione with a sig­nif­icant look, as Har­ry head­ed off to the dun­geons.

There were on­ly three of them in Po­tions that af­ter­noon: Har­ry, Ernie, and Dra­co Mal­foy.

“All too young to Ap­pa­rate just yet?” said Slughorh ge­nial­ly, “Not turned sev­en­teen yet?”

They shook their heads.

“Ah well,” said Slughorn cheer­ily, “as we’re so few, we’ll do some­thing for fun. I want you all to brew me up some­thing amus­ing!”

“That sounds good, sir,” said Ernie syco­phan­ti­cal­ly, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er. Mal­foy, on the oth­er hand, did not crack a smile. “What do you mean, ’some­thing amus­ing’?” he said ir­ri­ta­bly. “Oh, sur­prise me,” said Slughorn air­ily.

Mal­foy opened his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing with a sulky ex­pres­sion. It could not have been plain­er that he thought this les­son was a waste of time. Un­doubt­ed­ly, Har­ry thought, watch­ing him over the top of his own book, Mal­foy was be­grudg­ing the time he could oth­er­wise be spend­ing in the Room of Re­quire­ment.

Was it his imag­ina­tion, or did Mal­foy, like Tonks, look thin­ner! Cer­tain­ly he looked paler; his skin still had that gray­ish tinge, prob­ably be­cause he so rarely saw day­light these days. But there was no air of smug­ness, ex­cite­ment, or su­pe­ri­or­ity; none of the swag­ger that he had had on the Hog­warts Ex­press, when he had boast­ed open­ly of the mis­sion he had been giv­en by Volde­mort. . . . There could be on­ly one con­clu­sion, in Har­ry’s opin­ion: The mis­sion, what­ev­er it was, was go­ing bad­ly.

Cheered by this thought, Har­ry skimmed through his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and found a heav­ily cor­rect­ed Half­Blood Prince’s ver­sion of “An Elixir to In­duce Eu­pho­ria,” which seemed not on­ly to meet Slughorn’s in­struc­tions, but which might (Har­ry’s heart leapt as the thought struck him) put Slughorn in­to such a good mood that he would be pre­pared to hand over that mem­ory if Har­ry could per­suade him to taste some. . . .

“Well, now, this looks ab­so­lute­ly won­der­ful,” said Slughorn an hour and a half lat­er, clap­ping his hands to­geth­er as he stared down in­to the sun­shine yel­low con­tents of Har­ry’s caul­dron. “Eu­pho­ria, I take it? And what’s that I smell? Mm­mm . . . you’ve added just a sprig of pep­per­mint, haven’t you? Un­or­tho­dox, but what a stroke of in­spi­ra­tion, Har­ry, of course, that would tend to coun­ter­bal­an­ce the oc­ca­sion­al side ef­fects of ex­ces­sive singing and nosetweak­ing. … I re­al­ly don’t know where you get these brain waves, my boy . . . un­less —”

Har­ry pushed the Half­Blood Prince’s book deep­er in­to his bag with his foot.

“— it’s just your moth­er’s genes com­ing out in you!”

“Oh . . . yeah, maybe,” said Har­ry, re­lieved.

Ernie was look­ing rather grumpy; de­ter­mined to out­shine Har­ry for once, he had most rash­ly in­vent­ed his own po­tion, which had cur­dled and formed a kind of pur­ple dumpling at the bot­tom of his caul­dron. Mal­foy was al­ready pack­ing up, sour­faced; Slughorn had pro­nounced his Hic­cup­ing So­lu­tion mere­ly “pass­able.”

The bell rang and both Ernie and Mal­foy left at once. “Sir,” Har­ry be­gan, but Slughorn im­me­di­ate­ly glanced over his shoul­der; when he saw that the room was emp­ty but for him­self and Har­ry, he hur­ried away as fast as he could.

“Pro­fes­sor — Pro­fes­sor, don’t you want to taste my po — ?” called Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

But Slughorn had gone. Dis­ap­point­ed, Har­ry emp­tied the caul­dron, packed up his things, left the dun­geon, and walked slow­ly back up­stairs to the com­mon room.

Ron and Hermione re­turned in the late af­ter­noon.

“Har­ry!” cried Hermione as she climbed through the por­trait hole. “Har­ry, I passed!”

“Well done!” he said. “And Ron?”

“He — he just failed,” whis­pered Hermione, as Ron came slouch­ing in­to the room look­ing most mo­rose. “It was re­al­ly un­lucky, a tiny thing, the ex­am­in­er just spot­ted that he’d left half an eye­brow be­hind. . . How did it go with Slughorn?”

“No joy,” said Har­ry, as Ron joined them. “Bad luck, mate, but you’ll pass next time — we can take it to­geth­er.”

“Yeah, I s’pose,” said Ron grumpi­ly. “But half an eye­brow – like that mat­ters!”

“I know,” said Hermione sooth­ing­ly, “it does seem re­al­ly harsh. …”

They spent most of their din­ner round­ly abus­ing the Ap­pari­tion ex­am­in­er, and Ron looked frac­tion­al­ly more cheer­ful by the time they set off back to the com­mon room, now dis­cussing the con­tin­uing prob­lem of Slughorn and the mem­ory.

“So, Har­ry — you go­ing to use the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis or what?” Ron de­mand­ed.

“Yeah, I s’pose I’d bet­ter,” said Har­ry. “I don’t reck­on I’ll need all of it, not twen­ty­four hours’ worth, it can’t take all night…. I’ll just take a mouth­ful. Two or three hours should do it.”

“It’s a great feel­ing when you take it,” said Ron rem­inis­cent­ly. “Like you can’t do any­thing wrong.”

“What are you talk­ing about?” said Hermione, laugh­ing. “You’ve nev­er tak­en any!”

“Yeah, but I thought I had, didn’t I?” said Ron, as though ex­plain­ing the ob­vi­ous. “Same dif­fer­ence re­al­ly …”

As they had on­ly just seen Slughorn en­ter the Great Hall and knew that he liked to take time over meals, they lin­gered for a while in the com­mon room, the plan be­ing that Har­ry should go to Slughorn s of­fice once the teach­er had had time to get back there. When the sun had sunk to the lev­el of the tree­tops in the For­bid­den For­est, they de­cid­ed the mo­ment had come, and af­ter check­ing care­ful­ly that Neville, Dean, and Sea­mus were all in the com­mon room, sneaked up to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ry.

Har­ry took out the rolledup socks at the bot­tom of his trunk and ex­tract­ed the tiny, gleam­ing bot­tle.

“Well, here goes,” said Har­ry, and he raised the lit­tle bot­tle and look a care­ful­ly mea­sured gulp.

“What does it feel like?” whis­pered Hermione.

Har­ry did not an­swer for a mo­ment. Then, slow­ly but sure­ly, an ex­hil­arat­ing sense of in­fi­nite op­por­tu­ni­ty stole through him; he felt as though he could have done any­thing, any­thing at all… and get­ting the mem­ory from Slughorn seemed sud­den­ly not on­ly pos­sible, but pos­itive­ly easy. . . .

He got to his feet, smil­ing, brim­ming with con­fi­dence.

“Ex­cel­lent,” he said. “Re­al­ly ex­cel­lent. Right. . . I’m go­ing down to Ha­grid’s.”

“What?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er, look­ing aghast.

“No, Har­ry — you’ve got to go and see Slughorn, re­mem­ber?” said Hermione.

“No,” said Har­ry con­fi­dent­ly. “I’m go­ing to Ha­grid’s, I’ve got a good feel­ing about go­ing to Ha­grid’s.”

“You’ve got a good feel­ing about bury­ing a gi­ant spi­der?” asked Ron, look­ing stunned.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, pulling his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of his bag. “I feel like it’s the place to be tonight, you know what I mean?”

“No,” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er, both look­ing pos­itive­ly alarmed now.

“This is Fe­lix Fe­li­cis, I sup­pose?” said Hermione anx­ious­ly, hold­ing up the bot­tle to the light. “You haven’t got an­oth­er lit­tle bot­tle full of— I don’t know —”

“Essence of In­san­ity?” sug­gest­ed Ron, as Har­ry swung his cloak over his shoul­ders.

Har­ry laughed, and Ron and Hermione looked even more alarmed.

“Trust me,” he said. “I know what I’m do­ing … or at least” he strolled con­fi­dent­ly to the door— “Fe­lix does.”

He pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over his head and set off down the stairs, Ron and Hermione hur­ry­ing along be­hind him. At the foot of the stairs, Har­ry slid through the open door.

“What were you do­ing up there with her!” shrieked Laven­der Brown, star­ing right through Har­ry at Ron and Hermione emerg­ing to­geth­er from the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries. Har­ry heard Ron splut­ter­ing be­hind him as he dart­ed across the room away from them.

Get­ting through the por­trait hole was sim­ple; as he ap­proached it, Gin­ny and Dean came through it, and Har­ry was able to slip be­tween them. As he did so, he brushed ac­ci­den­tal­ly against Gin­ny.

“Don’t push me, please, Dean,” she said, sound­ing an­noyed. ; “You’re al­ways do­ing that, I can get through per­fect­ly well on my own. …”

The por­trait swung closed be­hind Har­ry, but not be­fore he had heard Dean make an an­gry re­tort.. . . His feel­ing of ela­tion in­creas­ing, Har­ry strode off through the cas­tle. He did not have to creep along, for he met no­body on his way, but this did not sur­prise him in the slight­est. This evening, he was the luck­iest per­son at Hog­warts.

Why he knew that go­ing to Ha­grid’s was the right thing to do, he had no idea. It was as though the po­tion was il­lu­mi­nat­ing a few steps of the path at a time. He could not see the fi­nal des­ti­na­tion, he could not see where Slughorn came in, but he knew that he was go­ing the right way to get that mem­ory. When he reached the en­trance hall he saw that Filch had for­got­ten to lock the front door. Beam­ing, Har­ry threw it open and breathed in the smell of clean air and grass for a mo­ment be­fore walk­ing down the steps in­to the dusk.

It was when he reached the bot­tom step that it oc­curred to him how very pleas­ant it would be to pass the veg­etable patch on his walk to Ha­grid’s. It was not strict­ly on the way, but it seemed clear to Har­ry that this was a whim on which he should act, so he di­rect­ed his feet im­me­di­ate­ly to­ward the veg­etable patch, where he was pleased, but not al­to­geth­er sur­prised, to find Pro­fes­sor Slughorn in con­ver­sa­tion with Pro­fes­sor Sprout. Har­ry lurked be­hind a low stone wall, feel­ing at peace with the world and lis­ten­ing to their con­ver­sa­tion.

“I do thank you for tak­ing the time, Pomona,” Slughorn was say­ing cour­te­ous­ly, “most au­thor­ities agree that they are at their most ef­fi­ca­cious if picked at twi­light.”

“Oh, I quite agree,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout warm­ly. “That enough for you?”

“Plen­ty, plen­ty,” said Slughorn, who, Har­ry saw, was car­ry­ing an arm­ful of leafy plants. “This should al­low for a few leaves for each of my third years, and some to spare if any­body over­stews them. . . . Well, good evening to you, and many thanks again!”

Pro­fes­sor Sprout head­ed off in­to the gath­er­ing dark­ness in the di­rec­tion of her green­hous­es, and Slughorn di­rect­ed his steps to the spot where Har­ry stood, in­vis­ible.

Seized with an im­me­di­ate de­sire to re­veal him­self, Har­ry pul­let I off the cloak with a flour­ish.

“Good evening, Pro­fes­sor.”

“Mer­lin’s beard, Har­ry, you made me jump,” said Slughotn, stop­ping dead in his tracks and look­ing wary. “How did you get out of the cas­tle?”

“I think Filch must’ve for­got­ten to lock the doors,” said Har­ry cheer­ful­ly, and was de­light­ed to see Slughorn scowl.

“I’ll be re­port­ing that man, he’s more con­cerned about lit­ter than prop­er se­cu­ri­ty if you ask me. . . . But why are you out then, Har­ry?”

“Well, sir, it’s Ha­grid,” said Har­ry, who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth. “He’s pret­ty up­set. . . But you won’t tell any­one, Pro­fes­sor? I don’t want trou­ble for him. …”

Slughorn’s cu­rios­ity was ev­ident­ly aroused. “Well, I can’t promise that,” he said gruffly. “But I know that Dum­ble­dore trusts Ha­grid to the hilt, so I’m sure he can’t be up to any­thing very dread­ful. ..”

“Well, it’s this gi­ant spi­der, he’s had it for years. … It lived in the for­est. … It could talk and ev­ery­thing —”

“I heard ru­mors there were acro­man­tu­las in the for­est,” said Slughorn soft­ly, look­ing over at the mass of black trees. “It’s true, then?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “But this one, Ar­agog, the first one Ha­grid ev­er got, it died last night. He’s dev­as­tat­ed. He wants com­pa­ny while he buries it and I said I’d go.”

“Touch­ing, touch­ing,” said Slughorn ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, his large droopy eyes fixed up­on the dis­tant lights of Ha­grid’s cab­in. “But acro­man­tu­la ven­om is very valu­able … If the beast on­ly just died it might not yet have dried out. . . . Of course, I wouldn’t want to do any­thing in­sen­si­tive if Ha­grid is up­set. . . but if there was any way to pro­cure some … I mean, its al­most im­pos­si­ble to get ven­om from an acro­man­tu­la while its alive. …”

Slughorn seemed to be talk­ing more to him­self than Har­ry now. “. . . seems an aw­ful waste not to col­lect it… might get a hun­dred Galleons a pint. … To be frank, my salary is not large. . . .”

And now Har­ry saw clear­ly what was to be done. “Well,” he said, with a most con­vinc­ing hes­itan­cy, “well, if you want­ed to come, Pro­fes­sor, Ha­grid would prob­ably be re­al­ly pleased. . . . Give Ar­agog a bet­ter send­off, you know …”

“Yes, of course,” said Slughorn, his eyes now gleam­ing with en­thu­si­asm. “I tell you what, Har­ry, I’ll meet you down there with a bot­tle or two. . . . We’ll drink the poor beast’s — well — not health — but we’ll send it off in style, any­way, once it’s buried. And I’ll change my tie, this one is a lit­tle ex­uber­ant for the oc­ca­sion. . . .”

He bus­tled back in­to the cas­tle, and Har­ry sped off to Ha­grid’s, de­light­ed with him­self.

“Yen came,” croaked Ha­grid, when he opened the door and saw Har­ry emerg­ing from the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in front of him.

“Yeah — Ron and Hermione couldn’t, though,” said Har­ry. “They’re re­al­ly sor­ry.”

“Don — don mat­ter . . . Hed’ve bin touched yeh’re here, though, Har­ry. . .”

Ha­grid gave a great sob. He had made him­self a black arm­band out of what looked like a rag dipped in boot pol­ish, and his eyes were puffy, red, and swollen. Har­ry pat­ted him con­sol­ing­ly on the el­bow, which was the high­est point of Ha­grid he could eas­ily reach.

“Where are we bury­ing him?” he asked. “The for­est?”

“Blimey, no,” said Ha­grid, wip­ing his stream­ing eyes on the bot­tom of his shirt. “The oth­er spi­ders won’ let me any­where near their webs now Ar­agog’s gone. Turns out it was on­ly on his or­ders they didn’ eat me! Can yeh be­lieve that, Har­ry?”

The hon­est an­swer was “yes”; Har­ry re­called with painful ease the scene when he and Ron had come faceto­face with the aero­man­tu­las. They had been quite clear that Ar­agog was the on­ly thing that stopped them from eat­ing Ha­grid.

“Nev­er bin an area o’ the for­est I couldn’ go be­fore!” said Ha­grid, shak­ing his head. “It wasn’ easy, get­tin’ Ar­agog’s body out o’ there, I can tell yeh — they usu­al­ly eat their dead, see. . . . But I want­ed ter give ‘im a nice buri­al… a prop­er send­off. . .”

He broke in­to sobs again and Har­ry re­sumed the pat­ting of his el­bow, say­ing as he did so (for the po­tion seemed to in­di­cate that it was the right thing to do), “Pro­fes­sor Slughorn met me com­ing down here, Ha­grid.”

“Not in trou­ble, are yeh?” said Ha­grid, look­ing up, alarmed. “Yeh shouldn’ be out­ta the cas­tle in the evenin’, I know it, it’s my fault —”

“No, no, when he heard what I was do­ing he said he’d like to come and pay his last re­spects to Ar­agog too,” said Har­ry.

“He’s gone to change in­to some­thing more suit­able, I think…and he said he’d bring some bot­tles so we can drink to Ar­agog’s mem­ory…”

“Did he?” said Ha­grid, look­ing both as­ton­ished and touched. “Tha’s — tha’s righ’ nice of him, that is, an’ not turnin’ yeh in ei­ther. I’ve nev­er re­al­ly had a lot ter do with Ho­race Slughorn be­fore. .. . Comin’ ter see old Ar­agog off, though, eh? Well. . . he’d’ve liked that, Ar­agog would. . . .”

Har­ry thought pri­vate­ly that what Ar­agog would have liked most about Slughorn was the am­ple amount of ed­ible flesh he pro­vid­ed, but he mere­ly moved to the rear win­dow of Ha­grid’s hut, where he saw the rather hor­ri­ble sight of the enor­mous dead spi­der ly­ing on its back out­side, its legs curled and tan­gled.

“Are we go­ing to bury him here, Ha­grid, in your gar­den?”

“Jus’ be­yond the pump­kin patch, I thought,” said Ha­grid in a choked voice. “I’ve al­ready dug the — yeh know — grave. Jus’ thought we’d say a few nice things over him — hap­py mem­ories, yeh know —”

His voice quiv­ered and broke. There was a knock on the door, and he turned to an­swer it, blow­ing his nose on his great spot­ted hand­ker­chief as he did so. Slughorn hur­ried over the thresh­old, sev­er­al bot­tles in his arms, and wear­ing a somber black cra­vat.

“Ha­grid,” he said, in a deep, grave voice. “So very sor­ry to hear of your loss.”

“Tha’s very nice of yeh,” said Ha­grid. “Thanks a lot. An’ thanks fer not givin Har­ry de­ten­tion nei­ther. . . .”

“Wouldn’t have dreamed of it,” said Slughorn. “Sad night, sad night. . . Where is the poor crea­ture?”

“Out here,” said Ha­grid in a shak­ing voice. “Shall we — shall we do it, then?”

The three of them stepped out in­to the back gar­den. The moon was glis­ten­ing pale­ly through the trees now, and its rays min­gled with the light spilling from Ha­grid’s win­dow to il­lu­mi­nate Ar­agogs body ly­ing on the edge of a mas­sive pit be­side a ten­foot- high mound of fresh­ly dug earth.

“Mag­nif­icent,” said Slughorn, ap­proach­ing the spi­ders head, where eight milky eyes stared blankly at the sky and two huge, curved pin­cers shone, mo­tion­less, in the moon­light. Har­ry thougln he heard the tin­kle of bot­tles as Slughorn bent over the pin­cers, ap­par­ent­ly ex­am­in­ing the enor­mous hairy head.

“Its not ev’ry­one ap­pre­ci­ates how beau’iful they are’ said H grid to Slughorn’s back, tears leak­ing from the cor­ners of his crin­kled eyes. “I didn’ know yeh were in­ter­est­ed in crea­tures like Ar­agog, Ho­race.”

“In­ter­est­ed? My dear Ha­grid, I re­vere them,” said Slughorn, step­ping back from the body. Har­ry saw the glint of a bot­tle dis­ap­pear be­neath his cloak, though Ha­grid, mop­ping his eyes once more, no­ticed noth­ing. “Now . . . shall we pro­ceed to the buri­al?”

Ha­grid nod­ded and moved for­ward. He heaved the gi­gan­tic spi­der in­to his arms and, with an enor­mous grunt, rolled it in­to the dark pit. It hit the bot­tom with a rather hor­ri­ble, crunchy thud. Ha­grid start­ed to cry again.

“Of course, it’s dif­fi­cult for you, who knew him best,” said Slughorn, who like Har­ry could reach no high­er than Ha­grid’s el­bow, but pat­ted it all the same. “Why don’t I say a few words?”

He must have got a lot of good qual­ity ven­om from Ar­agog, Har­ry thought, for Slughorn wore a sat­is­fied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit and said, in a slow, im­pres­sive voice, “Farewell, Ar­agog, king of arach­nids, whose long and faith­ful friend­ship those who knew you won’t for­get! Though your body will de­cay, your spir­it lingers on in the qui­et, web­spun places of your for­est home. May your manyeyed de­scen­dants ev­er flour­ish and your hu­man friends find so­lace for the loss they have sus­tained.”

“Tha was . . . tha was . . . beau’iful!” howled Ha­grid, and he col­lapsed on­to the com­post heap, cry­ing hard­er than ev­er.

“There, there,” said Slughorn, wav­ing his wand so that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell, with a muf­fled sort of crash, on­to the dead spi­der, form­ing a smooth mound. “Lets get in­side and have a drink. Get on his oth­er side, Har­ry. . . . That’s it. … Up you come, Ha­grid . . . Well done …”

They de­posit­ed Ha­grid in a chair at the ta­ble. Fang, who had been skulk­ing in his bas­ket dur­ing the buri­al, now came padding soft­ly across to them and put his heavy head in­to Har­ry’s lap as usu­al. Slughorn un­corked one of the bot­tles of wine he had brought.

“I have had it all test­ed for poi­son,” he as­sured Har­ry, pour­ing most of the first bot­tle in­to one of Ha­grid’s buck­et­sized mugs and hand­ing it to Ha­grid. “Had a house­elf taste ev­ery bot­tle af­ter what hap­pened to your poor friend Ru­pert.”

Har­ry saw, in his mind’s eye, the ex­pres­sion on Hermione’s face if she ev­er heard about this abuse of house­elves, and de­cid­ed nev­er to men­tion it to her.

“One for Har­ry . . .” said Slughorn, di­vid­ing a sec­ond bot­tle be­tween two mugs, “. . . and one for me. Well” — he raised his mug high — “to Ar­agog.”

“Ar­agog,” said Har­ry and Ha­grid to­geth­er. Both Slughorn and Ha­grid drank deeply. Har­ry, how­ev­er, with the way ahead il­lu­mi­nat­ed for him by Fe­lix Fe­li­cis, knew that he must not drink, so he mere­ly pre­tend­ed to take a gulp and then set the mug back on the ta­ble be­fore him.

“I had him from an egg, yeh know,” said Ha­grid mo­rose­ly. “‘Tiny lit­tle thing he was when he hatched. ‘Bout the size of a Pekingese”

“Sweet,” said Slughorn.

“Used ter keep him in a cup­board up at the school un­til . . . well…”

Ha­grid’s face dark­ened and Har­ry knew why: Tom Rid­dle had con­trived to have Ha­grid thrown out of school, blamed for open­ing the Cham­ber of Se­crets. Slughorn, how­ev­er, did not seem to be lis­ten­ing; he was look­ing up at the ceil­ing, from which a num­ber of brass pots hung, and al­so a long, silky skein of bright white hair.

“That’s not uni­corn hair, Ha­grid?”

“Oh, yeah,” said Ha­grid in­dif­fer­ent­ly. “Gets pulled out of their tails, they catch it on branch­es an’ stuff in the for­est, yeh know …”

“But my dear chap, do you know how much that’s worth?”

“I use it fer bindin’ on ban­dages an stuff if a crea­ture gets in ju­red,” said Ha­grid, shrug­ging. “It’s dead use­ful. . . very strong.”

Slughorn took an­oth­er deep draught from his mug, his eyes mov­ing care­ful­ly around the cab­in now, look­ing, Har­ry knew, for more trea­sures that he might be able to con­vert in­to a plen­ti­ful su ply of oak­ma­tured mead, crys­tal­ized pineap­ple, and vel­vet smok­ing jack­ets. He re­filled Ha­grid’s mug and his own, and ques­tioned him about the crea­tures that lived in the for­est these days and how Ha­grid was able to look af­ter them all. Ha­grid, be­com­ing ex­pan­sive un­der the in­flu­ence of the drink and Slughorn’s flat­ter­ing in­ter­est, stopped mop­ping his eyes and en­tered hap­pi­ly in­to a long ex­pla­na­tion of bowtruck­le hus­bandry.

The Fe­lix Fe­li­cis gave Har­ry a lit­tle nudge at this point, and he no­ticed that the sup­ply of drink that Slughorn had brought was run­ning out fast. Har­ry had not yet man­aged to bring off the Re­fill­ing Charm with­out say­ing the in­can­ta­tion aloud, but the idea that he might not be able to do it tonight was laugh­able: In­deed, Har­ry grinned to him­self as, un­no­ticed by ei­ther Ha­grid or Slugli­orn (now swap­ping tales of the il­le­gal trade in drag­on eggs) he point­ed his wand un­der the ta­ble at the emp­ty­ing bot­tles and they im­me­di­ate­ly be­gan to re­fill.

Af­ter an hour or so, Ha­grid and Slughorn be­gan mak­ing ex­trav­agant toasts: to Hog­warts, to Dum­ble­dore, to elf­made wine, and to-

“Har­ry Pot­ter!” bel­lowed Ha­grid, slop­ping some of his four­teenth buck­et of wine down his chin as he drained it.

“Yes, in­deed,” cried Slughorn a lit­tle thick­ly, “Par­ry Ot­ter, the Cho­sen Boy Who — well — some­thing of that sort,” he mum­bled, and drained his mug too.

Not long af­ter this, Ha­grid be­came tear­ful again and pressed the whole uni­corn tail up­on Slughorn, who pock­et­ed it with cries of, “To friend­ship! To gen­eros­ity! To ten Galleons a hair!”

And for a while af­ter that, Ha­grid and Slughorn were sit­ting side by side, arms around each oth­er, singing a slow sad song about a dy­ing wiz­ard called Odo.

“Aaargh, the good die young,” mut­tered Ha­grid, slump­ing low on­to the ta­ble, a lit­tle crosseyed, while Slughorn con­tin­ued to war­ble the re­frain. “Me dad was no age ter go … nor were yer mum’ an’ dad, Har­ry . . .”

Great fat tears oozed out of the cor­ners of Ha­grid’s crin­kled eyes again; he grasped Har­ry’s arm and shook it

“Bes’ wiz and witchard o’ their age … I nev­er knew.. . ter­ri­ble thing . . . ter­ri­ble thing …”

“And Odo the hero, they bore him back home

To the place that he’d known as a lad,”

sang Slughorn plain­tive­ly.

“They laid him to rest with his hat in­side out.

And his wand snapped in two, which was sad.”

“. . . ter­ri­ble,” Ha­grid grunt­ed, and his great shag­gy head rolled side­ways on­to his arms and he fell asleep, snor­ing deeply.

“Sor­ry,” said Slughorn with a hic­cup. “Can’t car­ry a tune to save my life.”

“Ha­grid wasn’t talk­ing about your singing,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly. “He was talk­ing about my mum and dad dy­ing.”

“Oh,” said Slughorn, re­press­ing a large belch. “Oh dear. Yes, that was — was ter­ri­ble in­deed. Ter­ri­ble . . . ter­ri­ble …”

He looked quite at a loss for what to say, and re­sort­ed to re­fill­ing their mugs.

“I don’t — don’t sup­pose you re­mem­ber it, Har­ry?” he asked awk­ward­ly.

“No — well, I was on­ly one when they died,” said Har­ry, his eyes on the flame of the can­dle flick­er­ing in Ha­grid’s heavy snores. “But I’ve found out pret­ty much what hap­pened since. My dad died first. Did you know that?”

“I — I didn’t,” said Slughorn in a hushed voice.

“Yeah . . . Volde­mort mur­dered him and then stepped over his body to­ward my mum,” said Har­ry.

Slughorn gave a great shud­der, but he did not seem able to tear his hor­ri­fied gaze away from Har­ry’s face.

“He told her to get out of the way,” said Har­ry re­morse­less­ly. “He told me she needn’t have died. He on­ly want­ed me. She could have run.”

“Oh dear,” breathed Slughorn. “She could have . . . she needn’t . . . That’s aw­ful. . . .”

“It is, isn’t it?” said Har­ry, in a voice bare­ly more than a whis­per. “But she didn’t move. Dad was al­ready dead, but she didn’t want me to go too. She tried to plead with Volde­mort. . . but he just laughed….”

“That’s enough!” said Slughorn sud­den­ly, rais­ing a shak­ing hand. “Re­al­ly, my dear boy, enough . . . I’m an old man … I don’t need to hear … I don’t want to hear …”

“I for­got,” lied Har­ry, Fe­lix Fe­li­cis lead­ing him on. “You liked her, didn’t you?”

“Liked her?” said Slughorn, his eyes brim­ming with tears once more. “I don’t imag­ine any­one who met her wouldn’t have liked her. . . . Very brave . . . Very fun­ny… It was the most hor­ri­ble thing. …”

“But you won’t help her son,” said Har­ry. “She gave me her life, but you won’t give me a mem­ory.”

Ha­grid’s rum­bling snores filled the cab­in. Har­ry looked stea­di­ly in­to Slughorn’s tearfilled eyes. The Po­tions mas­ter seemed un­able to look away.

“Don’t say that,” he whis­pered. “It isn’t a ques­tion … If it were to help you, of course . . . but no pur­pose can be served . . .”

“It can,” said Har­ry clear­ly. “Dum­ble­dore needs in­for­ma­tion. I need in­for­ma­tion.”

He knew he was safe: Fe­lix was telling him that Slughorn would re­mem­ber noth­ing of this in the morn­ing. Look­ing Slughorn straight in the eye, Har­ry leaned for­ward a lit­tle.

“I am the Cho­sen One. I have to kill him. I need that mem­ory.”

Slughorn turned paler than ev­er; his shiny fore­head gleamed with sweat.

“You are the Cho­sen One?” . . I.

“Of course I am,” said Har­ry calm­ly.

“But then . . . my dear boy . . . you’re ask­ing a great deal. . . you’re ask­ing me, in fact, to aid you in your at­tempt to de­stroy-“

“You don’t want to get rid of the wiz­ard who killed Lily Evans?’”

“Har­ry, Har­ry, of course I do, but —”

“You’re scared he’ll find out you helped me?”

Slughorn said noth­ing; he looked ter­ri­fied.

“Be brave like my moth­er, Pro­fes­sor. . . .”

Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his shak­ing fin­gers to his mouth; he looked for a mo­ment like an enor­mous­ly over­grown ba­by.

“I am not proud . . .” he whis­pered through his fin­gers. “I am ashamed of what — of what that mem­ory shows. … I think I may have done great dam­age that day. …”

“You’d can­cel out any­thing you did by giv­ing me the mem­ory,” said Har­ry. “It would be a very brave and no­ble thing to do.”

Ha­grid twitched in his sleep and snored on. Slughorn and Har­ry stared at each oth­er over the gut­ter­ing can­dle. There was a long, long si­lence, but Fe­lix Fe­li­cis told Har­ry not to break it, to wait. Then, very slow­ly, Slughorn put his hand in his pock­et and pulled out his wand. He put his oth­er hand in­side his cloak and took out a small, emp­ty bot­tle. Still look­ing in­to Har­ry’s eyes, Slughorn touched the tip of his wand to his tem­ple and with­drew it, so that a long, sil­ver thread of mem­ory came away too, cling­ing to the wand tip. Longer and longer the mem­ory stretched un­til it broke and swung, sil­very bright, from the wand. Slughorn low­ered it in­to the bot­tle where it coiled, then spread, swirling like gas. He corked the bot­tle with a trem­bling hand and then passed it across the ta­ble to Har­ry.

“Thank you very much, Pro­fes­sor.”

“You’re a good boy,” said Pro­fes­sor Slughorn, tears trick­ling down his fat cheeks in­to his wal­rus mus­tache. “And you’ve got her eyes. . . . Just don’t think too bad­ly of me once you’ve seen it. . . ,”

And he too put his head on his arms, gave a deep sigh, and fell asleep.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 23: Horcruxes


Har­ry could feel the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis wear­ing off as he creeped back in­to the cas­tle. The front door had re­mained un locked for him, but on the third floor he met Peeves and on­ly nar­row­ly avoid­ed de­tec­tion by div­ing side­ways through one of his short­cuts. By the time he got up to the por­trait of the Fat La­dy and pulled off his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, he was not sur­prised to find her in a most un­help­ful mood.

“What sort of time do you call this?”

“I’m re­al­ly sor­ry — I had to go out for some­thing im­por­tant —”

“Well, the pass­word changed at mid­night, so you’ll just have to sleep in the cor­ri­dor, won’t you?”

“You’re jok­ing!” said Har­ry. “Why did it have to change at mid­night?”

“That’s the way it is,” said the Fat La­dy. “If you’re an­gry, go and take it up with the head­mas­ter, he’s the one who’s tight­ened se­cu­ri­ty.”

“Fan­tas­tic,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly, look­ing around at the hard floor. “Re­al­ly bril­liant. Yeah, I would go and take it up with Dum­ble­dore if he was here, be­cause he’s the one who want­ed me to —”

“He is here,” said a voice be­hind Har­ry. “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore re­turned to the school an hour ago.”

Near­ly Head­less Nick was glid­ing to­ward Har­ry, his head wob­bling as usu­al up­on his ruff.

“I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him ar­rive,” said Nick. “He ap­peared, ac­cord­ing to the Baron, to be in good spir­its, though a lit­tle tired, of course.”

“Where is he?” said Har­ry, his heart leap­ing,”

“Oh, groan­ing and clank­ing up on the As­tron­omy Tow­er, it’s a, fa­vorite pas­time of his —”

“Not the Bloody Baron — Dum­ble­dore!”

“Oh — in his of­fice,” said Nick. “I be­lieve, from what the Baron said, that he had busi­ness to at­tend to be­fore turn­ing in —”

“Yeah, he has,” said Har­ry, ex­cite­ment blaz­ing in his chest at the prospect of telling Dum­ble­dore he had se­cured the mem­ory. He wheeled about and sprint­ed off again, ig­nor­ing the Fat La­dy who was call­ing af­ter him.

“Come back! All right, I lied! I was an­noyed you woke me up! The pass­word’s still ‘tape­worm’!”

But Har­ry was al­ready hurtling back along the cor­ri­dor and with­in min­utes, he was say­ing “tof­fee eclairs” to Dum­ble­dore’s gar­goyle, which leapt aside, per­mit­ting Har­ry en­trance on­to the spi­ral stair­case.

“En­ter,” said Dum­ble­dore when Har­ry knocked. He sound­ed ex­haust­ed. Har­ry pushed open the door. There was Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, look­ing the same as ev­er, but with black, starstrewn skies be­yond the win­dows.

“Good gra­cious, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore in sur­prise. “To what do I owe this very late plea­sure?”

“Sir — I’ve got it. I’ve got the mem­ory from Slughorn.”

Har­ry pulled out the tiny glass bot­tle and showed it to Dum­ble­dore. For a mo­ment or two, the head­mas­ter looked stunned. Then his face split in a wide smile.

“Har­ry, this is spec­tac­ular news! Very well done in­deed! I knew you could do it!”

All thought of the late­ness of the hour ap­par­ent­ly for­got­ten, he hur­ried around his desk, took the bot­tle with Slughorn’s mem­ory in his un­in­ju­red hand, and strode over to the cab­in­et where he kepi the Pen­sieve.

“And now,” said Dum­ble­dore, plac­ing the stone basin up­on the desk and emp­ty­ing the con­tents of the bot­tle in­to it. “Now, at last. we shall see. Har­ry, quick­ly . . .”

Har­ry bowed obe­di­ent­ly over the Pen­sieve and felt his feet leave the of­fice floor. . . . Once again he fell through dark­ness and land­ed in Ho­race Slughorn’s of­fice many years be­fore. There was the much younger Slughorn, with his thick, shiny, straw­col­ored hair and his gin­gery­blond mus­tache, sit­ting again in the com­fort­able winged arm­chair in his of­fice, his feet rest­ing up­on a vel­vet pouffe, a small glass of wine in one hand, the oth­er rum­mag­ing in a box of crys­tal­lized pineap­ple. And there were the half dozen teenage boys sit­ting around Slughorn with Tom Rid­dle in the midst of them, Mar­vo­lo’s goldand­black ring gleam­ing on his fin­ger.

Dum­ble­dore land­ed be­side Har­ry just as Rid­dle asked, “Sir is it true that Pro­fes­sor Mer­ry­thought is re­tir­ing?”

“Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said Slughorn, wag­ging his fin­ger re­prov­ing­ly at Rid­dle, though wink­ing at the same time. “I must say, I’d like to know where you get your in­for­ma­tion, boy, more knowl­edge­able than half the staff, you are.”

Rid­dle smiled; the oth­er boys laughed and cast him ad­mir­ing looks.

“What with your un­can­ny abil­ity to know things you shouldn’t, and your care­ful flat­tery of the peo­ple who mat­ter — thank you for the pineap­ple, by the way, you’re quite right, it is my fa­vorite —” Sev­er­al of the boys tit­tered again. “— I con­fi­dent­ly ex­pect you to rise to Min­is­ter of Mag­ic with­in twen­ty years. Fif­teen, if you keep send­ing me pineap­ple, I have ex­cel­lent con­tacts at the Min­istry.”

Tom Rid­dle mere­ly smiled as the oth­ers laughed again. Har­ry no­ticed that he was by no means the el­dest of the group of boys, but that they all seemed to look to him as their lead­er.

“I don’t know that pol­itics would suit me, sir,” he said when the laugh­ter had died away. “I don’t have the right kind of back­ground, for one thing.”

A cou­ple of the boys around him smirked at each oth­er. Har­ry was sure they were en­joy­ing a pri­vate joke, un­doubt­ed­ly about what they knew, or sus­pect­ed, re­gard­ing their gang lead­er’s fa­mous an­ces­tor.

“Non­sense,” said Slughorn briskly, “couldn’t be plain­er you come from de­cent Wiz­ard­ing stock, abil­ities like yours. No, you’ll go far, Tom, I’ve nev­er been wrong about a stu­dent yet.”

The small gold­en clock stand­ing up­on Slughorn’s desk chimed eleven o’clock be­hind him and he looked around.

“Good gra­cious, is it that time al­ready? You’d bet­ter get go­ing boys, or we’ll all be in trou­ble. Lestrange, I want your es­say by in mor­row or it’s de­ten­tion. Same goes for you, Av­ery.”

One by one, the boys filed out of the room. Slughorn heaved him­self out of his arm­chair and car­ried his emp­ty glass over to his desk. A move­ment be­hind him made him look around; Rid­dle was still stand­ing there.

“Look shar

p, Tom, you don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a pre­fect.. .”

“Sir, I want­ed to ask you some­thing.” -’ “Ask away, then, m’boy, ask away. . . .”

“Sir, I won­dered what you know about. . . about Hor­crux­es?’

Slughorn stared at him, his thick ringers ab­sent­mind­ed­ly claw­ing the stem of his wine glass.

“Project for De­fense Against the Dark Arts, is it?”

But Har­ry could tell that Slughorn knew per­fect­ly well that this was not school­work.

“Not ex­act­ly, sir,” said Rid­dle. “I came across the term while read­ing and I didn’t ful­ly un­der­stand it.”

“No . . . well. . . you’d be hard­pushed to find a book at Hog­warts that’ll give you de­tails on Hor­crux­es, Tom, that’s very Dark stuff, very Dark in­deed,” said Slughorn.

“But you ob­vi­ous­ly know all about them, sir? I mean, a wiz­ard like you — sor­ry, I mean, if you can’t tell me, ob­vi­ous­ly — I just knew if any­one could tell me, you could — so I just thought I’d –“

It was very well done, thought Har­ry, the hes­itan­cy, the ca­su­al tone, the care­ful flat­tery, none of it over­done. He, Har­ry, had had too much ex­pe­ri­ence of try­ing to whee­dle in­for­ma­tion out of re­luc­tant peo­ple not to rec­og­nize a mas­ter at work. He could tell that Rid­dle want­ed the in­for­ma­tion very, very much; per­haps had been work­ing to­ward this mo­ment for weeks.

“Well,” said Slughorn, not look­ing at Rid­dle, but fid­dling with the rib­bon on top of his box of crys­tal­lized pineap­ple, “well, it can’t hurt to give you an overview, of course. Just so that you un­der­stand t he term. A Hor­crux is the word used for an ob­ject in which a per­son has con­cealed part of their soul.”

“I don’t quite un­der­stand how that works, though, sir,” said Rid­dle.

His voice was care­ful­ly con­trolled, but Har­ry could sense his ex­cite­ment.

“Well, you split your soul, you see,” said Slughorn, “and hide part of it in an ob­ject out­side the body. Then, even if one’s body is at­tacked or de­stroyed, one can­not die, for part of the soul re­mains earth­bound and un­dam­aged. But of course, ex­is­tence in such a form …”

Slughorn’s face crum­pled and Har­ry found him­self re­mem­ber­ing words he had heard near­ly two years be­fore: “I was ripped from my body, I was less than spir­it, less than the mean­est ghost. . . but still, I was alive.”

“… few would want it, Tom, very few. Death would be pre­fer­able.”

But Rid­dle’s hunger was now ap­par­ent; his ex­pres­sion was greedy, he could no longer hide his long­ing.

“How do you split your soul?”

“Well,” said Slughorn un­com­fort­ably, “you must un­der­stand that the soul is sup­posed to re­main in­tact and whole. Split­ting n it I an act of vi­ola­tion, it is against na­ture.”

“But how do you do it?”

“By an act of evil — the supreme act of evil. By com­mit­ing mur­der. Killing rips the soul apart. The wiz­ard in­tent up­on cre­at­ing a Hor­crux would use the dam­age to his ad­van­tage: He would en­case the torn por­tion —”

“En­case? But how — ?”

“There is a spell, do not ask me, I don’t know!” said Slughoin shak­ing his head like an old ele­phant both­ered by mosquitoes. ” Do I look as though I have tried it — do I look like a killer?”

“No, sir, of course not,” said Rid­dle quick­ly. “I’m sor­ry … I didn’t mean to of­fend . . .”

“Not at all, not at all, not of­fend­ed,” said Slughorn gruffly, “It is nat­ural to feel some cu­rios­ity about these things. . . . Wiz­ards of a cer­tain cal­iber have al­ways been drawn to that as­pect of mag­ic. . . .”

“Yes, sir,” said Rid­dle. “What I don’t un­der­stand, though — just out of cu­rios­ity — I mean, would one Hor­crux be much use? Can you on­ly split your soul once? Wouldn’t it be bet­ter, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces, I mean, for in­stance, isn’t sev­en the most pow­er­ful­ly mag­ical num­ber, wouldn’t sev­en — ?”

“Mer­lin’s beard, Tom!” yelped Slughorn. “Sev­en! Isn’t it bad enough to think of killing one per­son? And in any case . . . bad enough to di­vide the soul . . . but to rip it in­to sev­en pieces . . .”

Slughorn looked deeply trou­bled now: He was gaz­ing at Rid­dle as though he had nev­er seen him plain­ly be­fore, and Har­ry could tell that he was re­gret­ting en­ter­ing in­to the con­ver­sa­tion at all.

“Of course,” he mut­tered, “this is all hy­po­thet­ical, what we’re dis­cussing, isn’t it? All aca­dem­ic . . .”

“Yes, sir, of course,” said Rid­dle quick­ly.

“But all the same, Tom . . . keep it qui­et, what I’ve told — that’s to say, what we’ve dis­cussed. Peo­ple wouldn’t like to think we’ve been chat­ting about Hor­crux­es. It’s a banned sub­ject at Hog­warts, you know. . . . Dum­ble­dore’s par­tic­ular­ly fierce about it. …”

“I won’t say a word, sir,” said Rid­dle, and he left, but not be­fore Har­ry had glimpsed his face, which was full of that same wild hap­pi­ness it had worn when he had first found out that he was a wiz­ard, the sort of hap­pi­ness that did not en­hance his hand­some fea­tures, but made them, some­how, less hu­man. . . .

“Thank you, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Let us go. . . .”

When Har­ry land­ed back on the of­fice floor Dum­ble­dore was ; al­ready sit­ting down be­hind his desk. Har­ry sat too and wait­ed for Dum­ble­dore to speak.

“I have been hop­ing for this piece of ev­idence for a very long time,” said Dum­ble­dore at last. “It con­firms the the­ory on which I have been work­ing, it tells me that I am right, and al­so how very far there is still to go. …”

Har­ry sud­den­ly no­ticed that ev­ery sin­gle one of the old head­mas­ters and head­mis­tress­es in the por­traits around the walls was awake and lis­ten­ing in on their con­ver­sa­tion. A cor­pu­lent, red nosed wiz­ard had ac­tu­al­ly tak­en out an ear trum­pet.

“Well, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, “I am sure you un­der­stood the sig­nif­icance of what we just heard. At the same age as you are now, give or take a few months, Tom Rid­dle was do­ing all he could to find out how to make him­self im­mor­tal.”

“You think he suc­ceed­ed then, sir?” asked Har­ry. “He made a Hor­crux? And that’s why he didn’t die when he at­tacked me? He had a Hor­crux hid­den some­where? A bit of his soul was safe?”

“A bit… or more,” said Dum­ble­dore. “You heard Volde­mort, what he par­tic­ular­ly want­ed from Ho­race was an opin­ion on what would hap­pen to the wiz­ard who cre­at­ed more than one Hor­crux, what would hap­pen to the wiz­ard so de­ter­mined to evade death that he would be pre­pared to mur­der many times, rip his soul re­peat­ed­ly, so as to store it in many, sep­arate­ly con­cealed Hor­cruxc. No book would have giv­en him that in­for­ma­tion. As far as I know — as far, I am sure, as Volde­mort knew — no wiz­ard had ev­er done more than tear his soul in two.”

Dum­ble­dore paused for a mo­ment, mar­shal­ing his thought, and then said, “Four years ago, I re­ceived what I con­sid­ered cer­tain proof that Volde­mort had split his soul.”

“Where?” asked Har­ry. “How?”

“You hand­ed it to me, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “The di­ary, Rid­dles di­ary, the one giv­ing in­struc­tions on how to re­open the Cham­ber of Se­crets.”

“I don’t un­der­stand, sir,” said Har­ry.

“Well, al­though I did not see the Rid­dle who came out of the di­ary, what you de­scribed to me was a phe­nomenon I had nev­er wit­nessed. A mere mem­ory start­ing to act and think for it­self? A mere mem­ory, sap­ping the life out of the girl in­to whose hands it had fall­en? No, some­thing much more sin­is­ter had lived in­side that book. … a frag­ment of soul, I was al­most sure of it. The di­ary had been a Hor­crux. But this raised as many ques­tions as it an­swered. What in­trigued and alarmed me most was that that di­ary had been in­tend­ed as a weapon as much as a safe­guard.”

“1 still don’t un­der­stand,” said Har­ry.

“Well, it worked as a Hor­crux is sup­posed to work — in oth­er words, the frag­ment of soul con­cealed in­side it was kept safe and had un­doubt­ed­ly played its part in pre­vent­ing the death of its own­er. But there could be no doubt that Rid­dle re­al­ly want­ed that di­ary read, want­ed the piece of his soul to in­hab­it or pos­sess some­body else, so that Slytherin’s mon­ster would be un­leashed again.”

“Well, he didn’t want his hard work to be wast­ed,” said Har­ry. “He want­ed peo­ple to know he was Slytherin’s heir, be­cause he couldn’t take cred­it at the time.”

“Quite cor­rect,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding. “But don’t you see, Har­ry, that if he in­tend­ed the di­ary to be passed to, or plant­ed on, some fu­ture Hog­warts stu­dent, he was be­ing re­mark­ably blase about that pre­cious frag­ment of his soul con­cealed with­in it. The point of a Hor­crux is, as Pro­fes­sor Slughorn ex­plained, to keep part of the self hid­den and safe, not to fling it in­to some­body else’s path and run the risk that they might de­stroy it — as in­deed hap­pened: That par­tic­ular frag­ment of soul is no more; you saw to that.

The care­less way in which Volde­mort re­gard­ed this Hor­crux seemed most omi­nous to me. It sug­gest­ed that he must have made — or had been plan­ning to make — more Hor­crux­es, so that the loss of his first would not be so de­tri­men­tal. I did not wish to be­lieve it, but noth­ing else seemed to make sense. Then you told me, two years lat­er, that on the night that Volde­mort re­turned to his body, he made a most il­lu­mi­nat­ing and alarm­ing state­ment to his Death Eaters. ‘I who have gone fur­ther than any­body along the path that leads to im­mor­tal­ity.’ That was what you told me he said. ‘Fur­ther than any­body!’ And I thought I knew what that meant, though the Death Eaters did not. He was re­fer­ring to his Hor­crux­es, Hor­crux­es in the plu­ral, Har­ry, which I don’t be­lieve any oth­er wiz­ard has ev­er had. Yet it fit­ted: Lord Vol­do­mort has seemed to grow less hu­man with the pass­ing years, and the trans­for­ma­tion he had un­der­gone seemed to me to be on­ly ex­plain­able if his soul was mu­ti­lat­ed be­yond the realms of what we might call ‘usu­al evil’ . . .”

“So he’s made him­self im­pos­si­ble to kill by mur­der­ing oth­er peo­ple?” said Har­ry. “Why couldn’t he make a Sor­cer­er’s Stone, or steal one, if he was so in­ter­est­ed in im­mor­tal­ity?”

“Well, we know that he tried to do just that, five years ago,” s;n«l Dum­ble­dore. “But there are sev­er­al rea­sons why, I think, a Sor­cer­er’s Stone would ap­peal less than Hor­crux­es to Lord Volde­mort,

“While the Elixir of Life does in­deed ex­tend life, it must lie drunk reg­ular­ly, for all eter­ni­ty, if the drinker is to main­tain the im­mor­tal­ity. There­fore, Volde­mort would be en­tire­ly de­pen­dant on the Elixir, and if it ran out, or was con­tam­inat­ed, or if the Stone was stolen, he would die just like any oth­er man. Volde­mort likes to op­er­ate alone, re­mem­ber. I be­lieve that he would have found the thought of be­ing de­pen­dent, even on the Elixir, in­tol­er­able. Of course he was pre­pared to drink it if it would take him out of the hor­ri­ble partlife to which he was con­demned af­ter at­tack­ing you, but on­ly to re­gain a body. There­af­ter, I am con­vinced, he in­tend­ed to con­tin­ue to re­ly on his Hor­crux­es. He would need noth­ing more, if on­ly he could re­gain a hu­man form. He was al­ready im­mor­tal, you see … or as close to im­mor­tal as any man can be. But now, Har­ry, armed with this in­for­ma­tion, the cru­cial mem­ory you have suc­ceed­ed in procur­ing for us, we are clos­er to the se­cret of fin­ish­ing Lord Volde­mort than any­one has ev­er been be­fore. You heard him, Har­ry: ‘Wouldn’t it be bet­ter, make you stronger, to have your soul in more pieces . . . isn’t sev­en the most pow­er­ful­ly mag­ical num­ber . . .’ Isn’t sev­en the most pow­er­ful­ly mag­ical num­ber. Yes, I think the idea of a sev­en­part soul would great­ly ap­peal to Lord Volde­mort.”

“He made sev­en Hor­crux­es?” said Har­ry, hor­rorstruck, while sev­er­al of the por­traits on the walls made sim­ilar nois­es of shock mid out­rage. “But they could be any­where in the world — hid­den — buried or in­vis­ible —”

“I am glad to see you ap­pre­ci­ate the mag­ni­tude of the prob­lem,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “But first­ly, no, Har­ry, not sev­en Hor­crux­es: six. The sev­enth part of his soul, how­ev­er maimed, re­sides in­side his re­gen­er­at­ed body. That was the part of him that lived a spec­tral ex­is­tence for so many years dur­ing his ex­ile; with­out that, he has no self at all. That sev­enth piece of soul will be the last that any­body wish­ing to kill Volde­mort must at­tack — the piece that lives in his body.”

“But the six Hor­crux­es, then,” said Har­ry, a lit­tle des­per­ate­ly, “how are we sup­posed to find them?”

“You are for­get­ting . . . you have al­ready de­stroyed one of them. And I have de­stroyed an­oth­er.”

“You have?” said Har­ry ea­ger­ly.

“Yes in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he raised his black­ened, burned­look­ing hand. “The ring, Har­ry. Mar­vo­lo’s ring. And a ter­ri­ble curse there was up­on it too. Had it not been — for­give me the lack of seem­ly mod­es­ty — for my own pro­di­gious skill, and for Pro­fes­sor Snape’s time­ly ac­tion when I re­turned to Hog­warts, des­per­ate­ly in­ju­red, I might not have lived to tell the tale. How­ev­er, a with­ered hand does not seem an un­rea­son­able ex­change for a sev­enth of Volde­mort’s soul. The ring is no longer a Hor­crux.”

“But how did you find it?”

“Well, as you now know, for many years I have made it my busi­ness to dis­cov­er as much as I can about Volde­mort’s past life. I have trav­eled wide­ly, vis­it­ing those places he once knew. I stum­bled across the ring hid­den in the ru­in of the Gaunt’s house. It seem that once Volde­mort had suc­ceed­ed in seal­ing a piece of his soul in side it, he did not want to wear it any­more. He hid it, pro­tect­ed by many pow­er­ful en­chant­ments, in the shack where his an­ces­tors had once lived (Morfin hav­ing been cart­ed off to Azk­aban, of course), nev­er guess­ing that I might one day take the trou­ble to vis­it the ru­in, or that I might be keep­ing an eye open for traces of mag­ical con­ceal­ment.

“How­ev­er, we should not con­grat­ulate our­selves too hearti­ly. You de­stroyed the di­ary and I the ring, but if we are right in our the­ory of a sev­en­part soul, four Hor­crux­es re­main.”

“And they could be any­thing?” said Har­ry. “They could be oh, in tin cans or, I dun­no, emp­ty po­tion bot­tles. . . .”

“You are think­ing of Portkeys, Har­ry, which must be or­di­nary ob­jects, easy to over­look. But would Lord Volde­mort use tin cans or old po­tion bot­tles to guard his own pre­cious soul? You are for­get­ting what I have showed you. Lord Volde­mort liked to col­lect tro­phies, and he pre­ferred ob­jects with a pow­er­ful mag­ical his­to­ry His pride, his be­lief in his own su­pe­ri­or­ity, his de­ter­mi­na­tion to carve for him­self a startling place in mag­ical his­to­ry; these things, sug­gest to me that Volde­mort would have cho­sen his Hor­cruxr with some care, fa­vor­ing ob­jects wor­thy of the hon­or.”

“The di­ary wasn’t that spe­cial.”

“The di­ary, as you have said your­self, was proof that he was the Hire of Slytherin. I am sure that Volde­mort con­sid­ered it of stu­pen­dous im­por­tance.”

“So, the oth­er Hor­crux­es?” said Har­ry. “Do you think you know what they are, sir?”

“I can on­ly guess,” said Dum­ble­dore. “For the rea­sons I have al­ready giv­en, I be­lieve that Lord Volde­mort would pre­fer ob­jects that, in them­selves, have a cer­tain grandeur. I have there­fore trawled back through Volde­mort’s past to see if I can find ev­idence that such ar­ti­facts have dis­ap­peared around him.”

“The lock­et!” said Har­ry loud­ly, “Huf­flepuff’s cup!”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing, “I would be pre­pared to bet — per­haps not my oth­er hand — but a cou­ple of fin­gers, that they be­came Hor­crux­es three and four. The re­main­ing two, as­sum­ing again that he cre­at­ed a to­tal of six, are more of a prob­lem, but I will haz­ard a guess that, hav­ing se­cured ob­jects from Huf­flepuff and Slytherin, he set out to track down ob­jects owned by Gryffind­or or Raven­claw. Four ob­jects from the four founders would, I am sure, have ex­ert­ed a pow­er­ful pull over Volde­mort’s imag­ina­tion. I can­not an­swer for whether he ev­er man­aged to find any­thing of Raven­claw’s. I am con­fi­dent, how­ev­er, that the on­ly known rel­ic of Gryffind­or re­mains safe.”

Dum­ble­dore point­ed his black­ened fin­gers to the wall be­hind him, where a ru­byen­crust­ed sword re­posed with­in a glass case.

“Do you think that’s why he re­al­ly want­ed to come back to Hog­warts, sir?” said Har­ry. “To try and find some­thing from one of the oth­er founders?”

“My thoughts pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But un­for­tu­nate­ly, that does not ad­vance us much fur­ther, for he was turned away, or so I be­lieve, with­out the chance to search the school. I am forced to con­clude that he nev­er ful­filled his am­bi­tion of col­lect­ing four founders’ ob­jects. He def­inite­ly had two — he may have found three — that is the best we can do for now.”

“Even if he got some­thing of Raven­claw’s or of Gryffind­or’s, that leaves a sixth Hor­crux,” said Har­ry, count­ing on his fin­gers. “Un­less he’s got both?”

“I don’t think so,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think I know what the sixth Hor­crux is. I won­der what you will say when I con­fess that I have been cu­ri­ous for a while about the be­hav­ior of the snake, Na­gi­ni?’

“The snake?” said Har­ry, star­tled. “You can use an­imals as Hor­crux­es?”

“Well, it is in­ad­vis­able to do so,” said Dum­ble­dore, “be­cause to con­fide a part of your soul to some­thing that can think and move for it­self is ob­vi­ous­ly a very risky busi­ness. How­ev­er, if my cal­cu­la­tions are cor­rect, Volde­mort was still at least one Hor­crux short of his goal of six when he en­tered your par­ents’ house with the in­ten­tion of killing you. He seems to have re­served the pro­cess of mak­ing Hor­crux­es for par­tic­ular­ly sig­nif­icant deaths. You would cer­tain­ly have been that. He be­lieved that in killing you, he was de­stroy­ing the dan­ger the prophe­cy had out­lined. He be­lieved he was mak­ing him­self in­vin­cible. I am sure that he was in­tend­ing to make his fi­nal Hor­crux with your death. As we know, he failed. Af­ter an in­ter­val of some years, how­ev­er, he used Na­gi­ni to kill an old Mug­gle man, and it might then have oc­curred to him to turn her in­to his last Hor­crux. She un­der­lines the Slytherin con­nec­tion, which en­hances Lord Volde­mor­ts mys­tique; I think he is per­haps as fond of her as he can be of any­thing; he cer­tain­ly likes to keep her close, and he seems to have an un­usu­al amount of con­trol over her, even for a Parsel­mouth.”

“So,” said Har­ry, “the di­ary’s gone, the ring’s gone. The cup, the lock­et, and the snake are still in­tact, and you think there might be a Hor­crux that was once Raven­claw’s or Gryffind­or’s?”

“An ad­mirably suc­cinct and ac­cu­rate sum­ma­ry, yes,” said Dum­ble­dore, bow­ing his head.

“So . . . are you still look­ing for them, sir? Is that where you’ve been go­ing when you’ve been leav­ing the school?”

“Cor­rect,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I have been look­ing for a very long time. I think. . . per­haps … I may be close to find­ing an­oth­er one. There are hope­ful signs.”

“And if you do,” said Har­ry quick­ly, “can I come with you and help get rid of it?”

Dum­ble­dore looked at Har­ry very in­tent­ly for a mo­ment be­fore say­ing, “Yes, I think so.”

“I can?” said Har­ry, thor­ough­ly tak­en aback.

“Oh yes,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing slight­ly. “I think you have earned that right.”

Har­ry felt his heart lift. It was very good not to hear words of cau­tion and pro­tec­tion for once. The head­mas­ters and head­mis­tress­es around the walls seemed less im­pressed by Dum­ble­dore’s de­ci­sion; Har­ry saw a few of them shak­ing their heads and Phineas Nigel­lus ac­tu­al­ly snort­ed.

“Does Volde­mort know when a Hor­crux is de­stroyed, sir? Can he feel it?” Har­ry asked, ig­nor­ing the por­traits.

“A very in­ter­est­ing ques­tion, Har­ry. I be­lieve not. I be­lieve that Volde­mort is now so im­mersed in evil, and these cru­cial parts of him­self have been de­tached for so long, he does not feel as we do. Per­haps, at the point of death, he might be aware of his loss . . . but he was not aware, for in­stance, that the di­ary had been de­stroyed un­til he forced the truth out of Lu­cius Mal­foy. When Volde­mort dis­cov­ered that the di­ary had been mu­ti­lat­ed and robbed of all its pow­ers, I am told that his anger was ter­ri­ble to be­hold.”

“But I thought he meant Lu­cius Mal­foy to smug­gle it in­to Hog­warts?”

“Yes, he did, years ago, when he was sure he would be able to cre­ate more Hor­crux­es, but still Lu­cius was sup­posed to wait for Volde­mor­ts sayso, and he nev­er re­ceived it, for Volde­mort van­ished short­ly af­ter giv­ing him the di­ary. No doubt he thought that Lu­cius would not dare do any­thing with the Hor­crux oth­er than guard it care­ful­ly, but he was count­ing too much up­on Lu­cius’s fear of a mas­ter who had been gone for years and whom Lu­cius be­lieved dead. Of course, Lu­cius did not know what the di­ary re­al­ly was. I un­der­stand that Volde­mort had told him the di­ary would cause the Cham­ber of Se­crets to re­open be­cause it was clev­er­ly en­chant­ed. Had Lu­cius known he held a por­tion of his mas­ters soul in his hands, he would un­doubt­ed­ly have treat­ed it with more rev­er­ence — but in­stead he went ahead and car­ried out the old plan for his own ends. By plant­ing the di­ary up­on Arthur Weasleys daugh­ter, he hoped to dis­cred­it Arthur and get rid of a high­ly in­crim­inat­ing mag­ical ob­ject in one stroke. Ah, poor Lu­cius . . . what with Volde­mor­ts fury about the fact that he threw away the Hor­crux for his own gain, and the fi­as­co at the Min­istry last year, I would not be sur­prised if he is not se­cret­ly glad to be safe in Azk­aban at the mo­ment.”

Har­ry sat in thought for a mo­ment, then asked, “So if all of his Hor­crux­es are de­stroyed, Volde­mort couldbe killed?”

“Yes, I think so,” said Dum­ble­dore. “With­out his Hor­crux­es, Volde­mort will be a mor­tal man with a maimed and di­min­ished soul. Nev­er for­get, though, that while his soul may be dam­aged be­yond re­pair, his brain and his mag­ical pow­ers re­main in­tact. It will take un­com­mon skill and pow­er to kill a wiz­ard like Volde­mort even with­out his Hor­crux­es.”

“But I haven’t got un­com­mon skill and pow­er,” said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self.

“Yes, you have,” said Dum­ble­dore firm­ly. “You have a pow­er that Volde­mort has nev­er had. You can —”

“I know!” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly. “I can love!” It was on­ly with dif­fi­cul­ty that he stopped him­self adding, “Big deal!”

“Yes, Har­ry, you can love,” said Dum­ble­dore, who looked as though he knew per­fect­ly well what Har­ry had just re­frained from say­ing. “Which, giv­en ev­ery­thing that has hap­pened to you, is a great and re­mark­able thing. You are still too young to un­der­stand how un­usu­al you are, Har­ry.”

“So, when the prophe­cy says that I’ll have ‘pow­er the Dark Lord knows not,’ it just means — love?” asked Har­ry, feel­ing a lit­tle let down.

“Yes — just love,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But Har­ry, nev­er for­get that what the prophe­cy says is on­ly sig­nif­icant be­cause Volde­mort made it so. I told you this at the end of last year. Volde­mort sin­gled you out as the per­son who would be most dan­ger­ous to him — and in do­ing so, he made you the per­son who would be most dan­ger­ous to him!”

“But it comes to the same —”

“No, it doesn’t!” said Dum­ble­dore, sound­ing im­pa­tient now. Point­ing at Har­ry with his black, with­ered hand, he said, “You are set­ting too much store by the prophe­cy!”

“But,” splut­tered Har­ry, “but you said the prophe­cy means —“

“If Volde­mort had nev­er heard of the prophe­cy, would it have been ful­filled? Would it have meant any­thing? Of course not! Ho you think ev­ery prophe­cy in the Hall of Prophe­cy has been ful­filled?”

“But,” said Har­ry, be­wil­dered, “but last year, you said one of us would have to kill the oth­er —”

“Har­ry, Har­ry, on­ly be­cause Volde­mort made a grave er­ror, and act­ed on Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s words! If Volde­mort had nev­er mur­dered your fa­ther, would he have im­part­ed in you a fu­ri­ous de­sire for re­venge? Of course not! If he had not forced your moth­er to die for you, would he have giv­en you a mag­ical pro­tec­tion he could not pen­etrate? Of course not, Har­ry! Don’t you see? Volde­mort him­self cre­at­ed his worst en­emy, just as tyrants ev­ery­where do! Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the peo­ple they op­press? All of them re­al­ize that, one day, amongst their many vic­tims, there is sure to be one who ris­es against them and strikes back! Volde­mort is no dif­fer­ent! Al­ways he was on the look­out for the one who would chal­lenge him. He heard the prophe­cy and he leapt in­to ac­tion, with the re­sult that he not on­ly hand­picked the man most like­ly to fin­ish him, he hand­ed him unique­ly dead­ly weapons!”

“But —”

“It is es­sen­tial that you un­der­stand this!” said Dum­ble­dore, stand­ing up and strid­ing about the room, his glit­ter­ing robes swoosh­ing in his wake; Har­ry had nev­er seen him so ag­itat­ed. “By at­tempt­ing to kill you, Volde­mort him­self sin­gled out the re­mark­able per­son who sits here in front of me, and gave him the tools for the job! It is Volde­mort’s fault that you were able to see in­to his thoughts, his am­bi­tions, that you even un­der­stand the snake­like lan­guage in which he gives or­ders, and yet, Har­ry, de­spite your priv­ileged in­sight in­to Volde­mort’s world (which, in­ci­den­tal­ly, is a gift any Death Eater would kill to have), you have nev­er been se­duced by the Dark Arts, nev­er, even for a sec­ond, shown the slight­est de­sire to be­come one of Volde­mort’s fol­low­ers!”

“Of course I haven’t!” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly. “He killed my mum and dad!”

“You are pro­tect­ed, in short, by your abil­ity to love!” said Dum­ble­dore loud­ly. “The on­ly pro­tec­tion that can pos­si­bly work against the lure of pow­er like Volde­mort’s! In spite of all the temp­ta­tion you have en­dured, all the suf­fer­ing, you re­main pure of heart, just as pure as you were at the age of eleven, when you stared in­to a mir­ror that re­flect­ed your heart’s de­sire, and it showed you on­ly the way to thwart Lord Volde­mort, and not im­mor­tal­ity or rich­es. Har­ry, have you any idea how few wiz­ards could have seen what you saw in that mir­ror? Volde­mort should have known then what he was deal­ing with, but he did not! But he knows it now. You have flit­ted in­to Lord Volde­mort’s mind with­out dam­age to your­self, but he can­not pos­sess you with­out en­dur­ing mor­tal agony, as he dis­cov­ered in the Min­istry. I do not think he un­der­stands why, Har­ry, but then, he was in such a hur­ry to mu­ti­late his own soul, he nev­er paused to un­der­stand the in­com­pa­ra­ble pow­er of a soul that is un­tar­nished and whole.”

“But, sir,” said Har­ry, mak­ing valiant ef­forts not to sound ar­gu­men­ta­tive, “it all comes to the same thing, doesn’t it? I’ve got to try and kill him, or —”

“Got to?” said Dum­ble­dore. “Of course you’ve got to! But not be­cause of the prophe­cy! Be­cause you, your­self, will nev­er rest un­til you’ve tried! We both know it! Imag­ine, please, just for a mo­ment,

that you had nev­er heard that prophe­cy! How would you feel about Volde­mort now? Think!”

Har­ry watched Dum­ble­dore strid­ing up and down in front ol him, and thought. He thought of his moth­er, his fa­ther, and Si­nus. He thought of Cedric Dig­gory. He thought of all the ter­ri­ble deeds he knew Lord Volde­mort had done. A flame seemed to leap in­side his chest, sear­ing his throat.

“I’d want him fin­ished,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly. “And I’d want to do it.”

“Of course you would!” cried Dum­ble­dore. “You see, the prophe­cy does not mean you have to do any­thing! But the prophe­cy caused Lord Volde­mort to mark you as his equal. … In oth­er words, you are free to choose your way, quite free to turn your back on the prophe­cy! But Volde­mort con­tin­ues to set store by the prophe­cy. He will con­tin­ue to hunt you . . . which makes it cer­tain, re­al­ly, that —”

“That one of us is go­ing to end up killing the oth­er,” said Har­ry. “Yes.”

But he un­der­stood at last what Dum­ble­dore had been try­ing to tell him. It was, he thought, the dif­fer­ence be­tween be­ing dragged in­to the are­na to face a bat­tle to the death and walk­ing in­to the are­na with your head held high. Some peo­ple, per­haps, would say that there was lit­tle to choose be­tween the two ways, but Dum­ble­dore knew — and so do I, thought Har­ry, with a rush of fierce pride, and so did my par­ents — that there was all the dif­fer­ence in the world.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 24: Sectumsempra


Ex­haust­ed but de­light­ed with his night’s work, Har­ry told Ron and Hermione ev­ery­thing that had hap­pened dur­ing next morn­ing’s Charms les­son (hav­ing first cast the Muf­flia­to spell up­on those near­est them). They were both sat­is­fy­ing­ly im­pressed by the way he had whee­dled the mem­ory out of Slughorn and pos­itive­ly awed when he told them about Volde­mort’s Hor­crux­es and Dum­ble­dore’s promise to take Har­ry along, should he find an­oth­er one.

“Wow,” said Ron, when Har­ry had fi­nal­ly fin­ished telling them ev­ery­thing; Ron was wav­ing his wand very vague­ly in the di­rec­tion of the ceil­ing with­out pay­ing the slight­est bit of at­ten­tion to what he was do­ing. “Wow. You’re ac­tu­al­ly go­ing to go with Dum­ble­dore . . . and try and de­stroy . . . wow.”

“Ron, you’re mak­ing it snow,” said Hermione pa­tient­ly, grab­bing his wrist and re­di­rect­ing his wand away from the ceil­ing from which, sure enough, large white flakes had start­ed to fall. Laven­der Brown, Har­ry no­ticed, glared at Hermione from a neigh­bor­ing ta­ble through very red eyes, and Hermione im­me­di­ate­ly let go of Rons arm.

“Oh yeah,” said Ron, look­ing down at his shoul­ders in vague sur­prise. “Sor­ry… looks like we’ve all got hor­ri­ble dan­druff now. …”

He brushed some of the fake snow off Hermiones shoul­der Laven­der burst in­to tears. Ron looked im­mense­ly guilty and turned his back on her.

“We split up,” he told Har­ry out of the cor­ner of his mouth, “Last night. When she saw me com­ing out of the dor­mi­to­ry with Hermione. Ob­vi­ous­ly she couldn’t see you, so she thought it had just been the two of us.”

“Ah,” said Har­ry. “Well — you don’t mind it’s over, do you?”, “No,” Ron ad­mit­ted. “It was pret­ty bad while she was yelling, but at least I didn’t have to fin­ish it.”

“Cow­ard,” said Hermione, though she looked amused. “Well, it was a bad night for ro­mance all around. Gin­ny and Dean split up too, Har­ry.”

Har­ry thought there was a rather know­ing look in her eye as she told him that, but she could not pos­si­bly know that his in­sides were sud­den­ly danc­ing the con­ga. Keep­ing his face as im­mo­bile and his voice as in­dif­fer­ent as he could, he asked, “How come?”

“Oh, some­thing re­al­ly sil­ly . . . She said he was al­ways try­ing to help her through the por­trait hole, like she couldn’t climb in her­self . . . but they’ve been a bit rocky for ages.”

Har­ry glanced over at Dean on the oth­er side of the class­room. He cer­tain­ly looked un­hap­py.

“Of course, this puts you in a bit of a dilem­ma, doesn’t it?” said Hermione.

“What d’you mean?” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“The Quid­ditch team,” said Hermione. “If Gin­nyand Dean aren’t speak­ing . . .”

“Oh — oh yeah,” said Har­ry.

“Flitwick,” said Ron in a warn­ing tone. The tiny lit­tle Charms mas­ter was bob­bing his way to­ward them, and Hermione was the on­ly one who had man­aged to turn vine­gar in­to wine; her glass flask was full of deep crim­son liq­uid, where­as the con­tents of Har­ry’s and Ron’s were still murky brown.

“Now, now, boys,” squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick re­proach­ful­ly. “A lit­tle less talk, a lit­tle more ac­tion . . . Let me see you try. . . .”

To­geth­er they raised their wands, con­cen­trat­ing with all their might, and point­ed them at their flasks. Har­ry’s vine­gar turned to ice; Rons flask ex­plod­ed.

“Yes … for home­work,” said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, reemerg­ing from un­der the ta­ble and pulling shards of glass out of the top of his hat, “prac­tice.”

They had one of their rare joint free pe­ri­ods af­ter Charms and walked back to the com­mon room to­geth­er. Ron seemed to be pos­itive­ly light­heart­ed about the end of his re­la­tion­ship with Laven­der, and Hermione seemed cheery too, though when asked what she was grin­ning about she sim­ply said, “It’s a nice day.” Nei­ther of them seemed to have no­ticed that a fierce bat­tle was rag­ing in­side Har­ry’s brain:

She’s Rons sis­ter.

But she’s ditched Dean!

She’s still Rons sis­ter.

I’m his best mate!

That’ll make it worse.

If I talked to him first —

He’d hit you.

What if I don’t care?

He’s your best mate!

Har­ry bare­ly no­ticed that they were climb­ing through the por­trait hole in­to the sun­ny com­mon room, and on­ly vague­ly reg­is­tered the small group of sev­enth years clus­tered to­geth­er there, un­til Hermione cried, “Katie! You’re back! Are you okay?”

Har­ry stared: It was in­deed Katie Bell, look­ing com­plete­ly healthy and sur­round­ed by her ju­bi­lant friends.

“I’m re­al­ly well!” she said hap­pi­ly. “They let me out of St. Mun­gos on Mon­day, I had a cou­ple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came back here this morn­ing. Leanne was just telling me about McLaggen and the last match, Har­ry. . . .”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “well, now you’re back and Ron’s fit, we’ll have a de­cent chance of thrash­ing Raven­claw, which means we could still be in the run­ning for the Cup. Lis­ten, Katie . . .”

He had to put the ques­tion to her at once; his cu­rios­ity even drove Gin­ny tem­po­rar­ily from his brain. He dropped his voice as Katie’s friends start­ed gath­er­ing up their things; ap­par­ent­ly they were late for Trans­fig­ura­tion.

“. . . that neck­lace . . . can you re­mem­ber who gave it to you now?”

“No,” said Katie, shak­ing her head rue­ful­ly. “Ev­ery­one’s been ask­ing me, but I haven’t got a clue. The last thing I re­mem­ber was walk­ing in­to the ladies’ in the Three Broom­sticks.”

“You def­inite­ly went in­to the bath­room, then?” said Hermione.

“Well, I know I pushed open the door,” said Katie, “so I sup­pose who­ev­er Im­periused me was stand­ing just be­hind it. Af­ter that, my mem­ory’s a blank un­til about two weeks ago in St. Mun­go’s. Lis­ten, I’d bet­ter go, I wouldn’t put it past McG­ona­gall to give me lines even if it is my first day back. …”

She caught up her bag and books and hur­ried af­ter her friends, leav­ing Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to sit down at a win­dow ta­ble and pon­der what she had told them.

“So it must have been a girl or a wom­an who gave Katie the neck­lace,” said Hermione, “to be in the ladies’ bath­room.”

“Or some­one who looked like a girl or a wom­an,” said Har­ry. “Don’t for­get, there was a caul­dron full of Polyjuice Po­tion at Hog­warts. We know some of it got stolen. . . .”

In his mind’s eye, he watched a pa­rade of Crabbes and Goyles prance past, all trans­formed in­to girls.

“I think I’m go­ing to take an­oth­er swig of Fe­lix,” said Har­ry, “and have a go at the Room of Re­quire­ment again.”

“That would be a com­plete waste of po­tion,” said Hermione flat­ly, putting down the copy of Spell­mans Syl­labary she had just tak­en out of her bag. “Luck can on­ly get you so far, Har­ry. The sit­ua­tion with Slughorn was dif­fer­ent; you al­ways had the abil­ity to per­suade him, you just need­ed to tweak the cir­cum­stances a bit. Luck isn’t enough to get you through a pow­er­ful en­chant­ment, though. Don’t go wast­ing the rest of that po­tion! You’ll need all the luck you can get if Dum­ble­dore takes you along with him …” She dropped her voice to a whis­per.

“Couldn’t we make some more?” Ron asked Har­ry, ig­nor­ing Hermione. “It’d be great to have a stock of it. … Have a look in the book… “

Har­ry pulled his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bap, and looked up Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

“Blimey, its se­ri­ous­ly com­pli­cat­ed,” he said, run­ning an eye down the list of in­gre­di­ents. “And it takes six months.,. You’ve got to let it stew. …”

“Typ­ical,” said Ron.

Har­ry was about to put his book away again when he no­ticed the cor­ner of a page fold­ed down; turn­ing to it, he saw the Sec­tum­sem­pra spell, cap­tioned “For En­emies,” that he had marked a few weeks pre­vi­ous­ly. He had still not found out what it did, main­ly be­cause he did not want to test it around Hermione, but he was con­sid­er­ing try­ing it out on McLaggen next time he came up be­hind him un­awares.

The on­ly per­son who was not par­tic­ular­ly pleased to see Katie Bell back at school was Dean Thomas, be­cause he would no longer be re­quired to fill her place as Chas­er. He took the blow sto­ical­ly enough when Har­ry told him, mere­ly grunt­ing and shrug­ging, but Har­ry had the dis­tinct feel­ing as he walked away that Dean and Sea­mus were mut­ter­ing mu­ti­nous­ly be­hind his back.

The fol­low­ing fort­night saw the best Quid­ditch prac­tices Har­ry had known as Cap­tain. His team was so pleased to be rid of McLaggen, so glad to have Katie back at last, that they were fly­ing ex­treme­ly well.

Gin­ny did not seem at all up­set about the breakup with Dean; on the con­trary, she was the life and soul of the team. Her im­ita­tions of Ron anx­ious­ly bob­bing up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaf­fle sped to­ward him, or of Har­ry bel­low­ing or­ders at McLaggen be­fore be­ing knocked out cold, kept them all high­ly amused. Har­ry, laugh­ing with the oth­ers, was glad to have an in­no­cent rea­son to look at Gin­ny; he had re­ceived sev­er­al more Bludger in­ju­ries dur­ing prac­tice be­cause he had not been keep­ing his eyes on the Snitch.

The bat­tle still raged in­side his head: Gin­ny or Ron? Some­times he thought that the post­Laven­der Ron might not mind too much if he asked Gin­ny out, but then he re­mem­bered Ron’s ex­pres­sion when he had seen her kiss­ing Dean, and was sure that Ron would con­sid­er it base treach­ery if Har­ry so much as held her hand. . . .

Yet Har­ry could not help him­self talk­ing to Gin­ny, laugh­ing with her, walk­ing back from prac­tice with her; how­ev­er much his con­sci­ence ached, he found him­self won­der­ing how best to get her on her own. It would have been ide­al if Slughorn had giv­en an­oth­er of his lit­tle par­ties, for Ron would not be around — but un­for­tu­nate­ly, Slughorn seemed to have giv­en them up. Once or twice Har­ry con­sid­ered ask­ing for Hermione’s help, but he did not think he could stand see­ing the smug look on her face; he thought he caught it some­times when Hermione spot­ted him star­ing at Gin­ny or laugh­ing at her jokes. And to com­pli­cate mat­ters, he had the nag­ging wor­ry that if he didn’t do it, some­body else was sure to ask Gin­ny out soon: He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact that she was too pop­ular for her own good.

All in all, the temp­ta­tion to take an­oth­er gulp of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis was be­com­ing stronger by the day, for sure­ly this was a case for, as Hermione put it, “tweak­ing the cir­cum­stances”? The balmy days slid gen­tly through May, and Ron seemed to be there at Har­ry’s shoul­der ev­ery time he saw Gin­ny. Har­ry found him­self long­ing for a stroke of luck that would some­how cause Ron to re­al­ize that noth­ing would make him hap­pi­er than his best friend and his sis­ter falling for each oth­er and to leave them alone to­geth­er for longer than a few sec­onds. There seemed no chance of ei­ther while the fi­nal Quid­ditch game of the sea­son was loom­ing; Ron want­ed to talk tac­tics with Har­ry all the time and had lit­tle thought for any­thing else.

Ron was not unique in this re­spect; in­ter­est in the Gryffind­or­Raven­claw game was run­ning ex­treme­ly high through­out the school, for the match would de­cide the Cham­pi­on­ship, which was still wide open. If Gryffind­or beat Raven­claw by a mar­gin of three hun­dred points (a tall or­der, and yet Har­ry had nev­er known his team to fly bet­ter) then they would win the Cham­pi­on­ship. If they won by less than three hun­dred points, they would come sec­ond to Raven­claw; if they lost by a hun­dred points they would be third be­hind Huf­flepuff and if they lost by more than a hun­dred, they would be in fourth place and no­body, Har­ry thought, would ev­er, ev­er let him for­get that it had been he who had cap­tained Gryffind­or to their first bot­to­mof­theta­ble de­feat in two cen­turies.

The runup to this cru­cial match had all the usu­al fea­tures: mem­bers of ri­val Hous­es at­tempt­ing to in­tim­idate op­pos­ing teams in the cor­ri­dors; un­pleas­ant chants about in­di­vid­ual play­ers be­ing re­hearsed loud­ly as they passed; the team mem­bers them­selves ei­ther swag­ger­ing around en­joy­ing all the at­ten­tion or else dash­ing in­to bath­rooms be­tween class­es to throw up. Some­how, the game had be­come in­ex­tri­ca­bly linked in Har­ry’s mind with suc­cess or fail­ure in his plans for Gin­ny. He could not help feel­ing that if they won by more than three hun­dred points, the scenes of eu­pho­ria and a nice loud af­ter­match par­ty might be just as good as a hearty swig of Fe­lix Fe­li­cis.

In the midst of all his pre­oc­cu­pa­tions, Har­ry had not for­got­ten his oth­er am­bi­tion: find­ing out what Mal­foy was up to in the Room of Re­quire­ment. He was still check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and as he was un­able to lo­cate Mal­foy on it, de­duced that Mal­foy was still spend­ing plen­ty of time with­in the room. Al­though Har­ry was los­ing hope that he would ev­er suc­ceed in get­ting in­side the Room of Re­quire­ment, he at­tempt­ed it when­ev­er he was in the vicin­ity, but no mat­ter how he re­word­ed his re­quest, the wall re­mained firm­ly door­less.

A few days be­fore the match against Raven­claw, Har­ry found him­self walk­ing down to din­ner alone from the com­mon room, Ron hav­ing rushed off in­to a near­by bath­room to throw up yet again, and Hermione hav­ing dashed off to see Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor about a mis­take she thought she might have made in her last Arith­man­cy es­say. More out of habit than any­thing, Har­ry made his usu­al de­tour along the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor, check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map as he went. For a mo­ment he could not find Mal­foy any­where and as­sumed he must in­deed be in­side the Room of Re­quire­ment again, but then he saw Mal­foy’s tiny, la­beled dot stand­ing in a boys’ bath­room on the floor be­low, ac­com­pa­nied, not by Crabbe or Goyle, but by Moan­ing Myr­tle.

Har­ry on­ly stopped star­ing at this un­like­ly cou­pling when he walked right in­to a suit of ar­mor. The loud crash brought him out of his rev­er­ie; hur­ry­ing from the scene lest Filch turn up, he dashed down the mar­ble stair­case and along the pas­sage­way be­low. Out­side the bath­room, he pressed his ear against the door. He could not hear any­thing. He very qui­et­ly pushed the door open.

Dra­co Mal­foy was stand­ing with his back to the door, his hands clutch­ing ei­ther side of the sink, his white­blond head bowed.

“Don’t,” crooned Moan­ing Myr­tle’s voice from one of the cu­bi­cles. “Don’t. . . tell me what’s wrong … I can help you. . . .”

“No one can help me,” said Mal­foy. His whole body was shak­ing. “I can’t do it. … I can’t. … It won’t work . . . and un­less 1 do it soon … he says he’ll kill me. …”

And Har­ry re­al­ized, with a shock so huge it seemed to root him to the spot, that Mal­foy was cry­ing — ac­tu­al­ly cry­ing — tears stream­ing down his pale face in­to the grimy basin. Mal­foy gasped and gulped and then, with a great shud­der, looked up in­to flu­cracked mir­ror and saw Har­ry star­ing at him over his shoul­der.

Mal­foy wheeled around, draw­ing his wand. In­stinc­tive­ly, Har­ry pulled out his own. Mal­foy’s hex missed Har­ry by inch­es, shat­ter­ing the lamp on the wall be­side him; Har­ry threw him­self side­ways, thought Lev­icor­pus! and flicked his wand, but Mal­foy blocked the jinx and raised his wand for an­oth­er —

“No! No! Stop it!” squealed Moan­ing Myr­tle, her voice echo­ing loud­ly around the tiled room. “Stop! STOP!”

There was a loud bang and the bin be­hind Har­ry ex­plod­ed; Har­ry at­tempt­ed a Le­gLock­er Curse that back­fired off the wall be­hind Mal­foy’s ear and smashed the cis­tern be­neath Moan­ing Myr­tle, who screamed loud­ly; wa­ter poured ev­ery­where and Har­ry slipped as Mal­foy, his face con­tort­ed, cried, “Cru­ci —”

“SEC­TUM­SEM­PRA!” bel­lowed Har­ry from the floor, wav­ing his wand wild­ly.

Blood spurt­ed from Mal­foy’s face and chest as though he had been slashed with an in­vis­ible sword. He stag­gered back­ward and col­lapsed on­to the wa­ter­logged floor with a great splash, his wand falling from his limp right hand.

“No —” gasped Har­ry.

Slip­ping and stag­ger­ing, Har­ry got to his feet and plunged to­ward Mal­foy, whose face was now shin­ing scar­let, his white hands scrab­bling at his blood­soaked chest.

“No — I didn’t —”

Har­ry did not know what he was say­ing; he fell to his knees be­side Mal­foy, who was shak­ing un­con­trol­lably in a pool of his own blood. Moan­ing Myr­tle let out a deaf­en­ing scream: “MUR­DER! MUR­DER IN THE BATH­ROOM! MUR­DER!”

The door banged open be­hind Har­ry and he looked up, ter­ri­fied: Snape had burst in­to the room, his face livid. Push­ing Har­ry rough­ly aside, he knelt over Mal­foy, drew his wand, and traced it over the deep wounds Har­ry’s curse had made, mut­ter­ing an in­can­ta­tion that sound­ed al­most like song. The flow of blood seemed to ease; Snape wiped the residue from Mal­foy’s face and re­peat­ed his spell. Now the wounds seemed to be knit­ting.

Har­ry was still watch­ing, hor­ri­fied by what he had done, bare­ly aware that he too was soaked in blood and wa­ter. Moan­ing Myr­tle was still sob­bing and wail­ing over­head. When Snape had per­formed his coun­ter­curse for the third time, he halflift­ed Mal­foy in­to a stand­ing po­si­tion.

“You need the hos­pi­tal wing. There may be a cer­tain amount of scar­ring, but if you take dit­tany im­me­di­ate­ly we might avoid even that.. . . Come….”

He sup­port­ed Mal­foy across the bath­room, turn­ing at the door to say in a voice of cold fury, “And you, Pot­ter . . . You wait here for me.”

It did not oc­cur to Har­ry for a sec­ond to dis­obey. He stood up slow­ly, shak­ing, and looked down at the wet floor. There were blood­stains float­ing like crim­son flow­ers across its sur­face. He could not even find it in him­self to tell Moan­ing Myr­tle to be qui­et, as she con­tin­ued to wail and sob with in­creas­ing­ly ev­ident en­joy­ment.

Snape re­turned ten min­utes lat­er. He stepped in­to the bath­room and closed the door be­hind him.

“Go,” he said to Myr­tle, and she swooped back in­to her toi­let at once, leav­ing a ring­ing si­lence be­hind her.

“I didn’t mean it to hap­pen,” said Har­ry at once. His voice echoed in the cold, wa­tery space. “I didn’t know what that spell did.”

But Snape ig­nored this. “Ap­par­ent­ly I un­der­es­ti­mat­ed you, Pot­ter,” he said qui­et­ly. “Who would have thought you knew such Dark Mag­ic? Who taught you that spell?”

“I — read about it some­where.”

“Where?”

“It was — a li­brary book,” Har­ry in­vent­ed wild­ly. “I can’t re­mem­ber what it was call —”

“Liar,” said Snape. Har­ry’s throat went dry. He knew what Snape was go­ing to do and he had nev­er been able to pre­vent it. …

The bath­room seemed to shim­mer be­fore his eyes; he strug­gled to block out all thought, but try as he might, the Half­Blood Prince’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing swam hazi­ly to the fore­front of his mind.

And then he was star­ing at Snape again, in the midst of this wrecked, soaked bath­room. He stared in­to Snape’s black eyes, hop­ing against hope that Snape had not seen what he feared, but —

“Bring me your school­bag,” said Snape soft­ly, “and all of your school­books. All of them. Bring them to me here. Now!”

There was no point ar­gu­ing. Har­ry turned at once and splashed

out of the bath­room. Once in the cor­ri­dor, he broke in­to a run to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er. Most peo­ple were walk­ing the oth­er way; they gaped at him, drenched in wa­ter and blood, but he an­swered none of the ques­tions fired at him as he ran past.

He felt stunned; it was as though a beloved pet had turned sud­den­ly sav­age; what had the Prince been think­ing to copy such a spell in­to his book? And what would hap­pen when Snape saw it? Would he tell Slughorn — Har­ry’s stom­ach churned — how Har­ry had been achiev­ing such good re­sults in Po­tions all year? Would he con­fis­cate or de­stroy the book that had taught Har­ry so much . . . the book that had be­come a kind of guide and friend? Har­ry could not let it hap­pen. . . . He could not. . .

“Where’ve you — ? Why are you soak­ing — ? Is that blood.” Ron was stand­ing at the top of the stairs, look­ing be­wil­dered at , the sight of Har­ry.

“I need your book,” Har­ry pant­ed. “Your Po­tions book. Quick . . . give it to me . . .”

“But what about the Half­Blood —”

“I’ll ex­plain lat­er!”

Ron pulled his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and hand­ed it over; Har­ry sprint­ed off past him and back to the com­mon room. Here, he seized his school­bag, ig­nor­ing the amazed looks of sev­er­al peo­ple who had al­ready fin­ished their din­ner, threw him­self back out of the por­trait hole, and hur­tled off along the sev­en­th­floor cor­ri­dor.

He skid­ded to a halt be­side the tapestry of danc­ing trolls, closed his eyes, and be­gan to walk.

I need a place to hide my book. . . . I need a place to hide my book. . . . I need a place to hide my book. …

Three times he walked up and down in front of the stretch of blank wall. When he opened his eyes, there it was at last: the door to the Room of Re­quire­ment. Har­ry wrenched it open, flung him self in­side, and slammed it shut.

He gasped. De­spite his haste, his pan­ic, his fear of what await­ed him back in the bath­room, he could not help but be over­awed by what he was look­ing at. He was stand­ing in a room the size of a large cathe­dral, whose high win­dows were send­ing shafts of light down up­on what looked like a city with tow­er­ing walls, built of what Har­ry knew must be ob­jects hid­den by gen­er­ations of Hog­warts in­hab­itants. There were al­ley­ways and roads bor­dered by teter­ing piles of bro­ken and dam­aged fur­ni­ture, stowed away, per­haps, to hide the ev­idence of mis­han­dled mag­ic, or else hid­den by cas­tleproud house­elves. There were thou­sands and thou­sands of books, no doubt banned or graf­fi­tied or stolen. There were winged cat­apults and Fanged Fris­bees, some still with enough life in them to hov­er half­heart­ed­ly over the moun­tains of oth­er for­bid­den items; there were chipped bot­tles of con­gealed po­tions, hats, jew­els, cloaks; there were what looked like drag­on eggshells, corked bot­tles whose con­tents still shim­mered evil­ly, sev­er­al rust­ing swords, and a heavy, blood­stained axe.

Har­ry hur­ried for­ward in­to one of the many al­ley­ways be­tween all this hid­den trea­sure. He turned right past an enor­mous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a left at the bro­ken Van­ish­ing Cab­in­et in which Mon­tague had got lost the pre­vi­ous year, fi­nal­ly paus­ing be­side a large cup­board that seemed to have had acid thrown at its blis­tered sur­face. He opened one of the cup­board’s creak­ing doors: It had al­ready been used as a hid­ing place for some­thing in a cage that had long since died; its skele­ton had five legs. He stuffed the Half­Blood Princes book be­hind the cage and slammed the door. He paused for a mo­ment, his heart thump­ing hor­ri­bly, gaz­ing around at all the clut­ter. . . . Would he be able to find this spot again amidst all this junk? Seiz­ing the chipped bust of an ug­ly old war­lock from on top of a near­by crate, he stood it on top of the cup­board where the book was now hid­den, perched a dusty old wig and a tar­nished tiara on the stat­ues head to make it more dis­tinc­tive, then sprint­ed back through the al­ley­ways of hid­den junk as fast as he could go, back to the door, back out on­to the cor­ri­dor, where he slammed the door be­hind him, and it turned at once back in­to stone.

Har­ry ran flatout to­ward the bath­room on the floor be­low, cram­ming Ron’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing in­to his bag as he did so. A minute lat­er, he was back in front of Snape, who held out his hand word­less­ly for Har­ry’s school­bag. Har­ry hand­ed it over, pant­ing, a sear­ing pain in his chest, and wait­ed.

One by one, Snape ex­tract­ed Har­rys books and ex­am­in­ed them., Fi­nal­ly, the on­ly book left was the Po­tions book, which he looked at very care­ful­ly be­fore speak­ing.

“This is your copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing, is it, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, still breath­ing hard.

“You’re quite sure of that, are you, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, with a touch more de­fi­an­ce.

“This is the copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing that you pur­chased from Flour­ish and Blotts?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry firm­ly.

“Then why,” asked Snape, “does it have the name ‘Roonil Wa­zlib’ writ­ten in­side the front cov­er?”

Har­rys heart missed a beat. “That’s my nick­name,” he said. ‘

“Your nick­name,” re­peat­ed Snape. ; “Yeah . . . that’s what my friends call me,” said Har­ry.

“I un­der­stand what a nick­name is,” said Snape. The cold, black eyes were bor­ing once more in­to Har­ry’s; he tried not to look in­to them. Close your mind. . . . Close your mind. . . . But he had nev­er learned how to do it prop­er­ly. . . .

“Do you know what I think, Pot­ter?” said Snape, very qui­et­ly. “I think that you are a liar and a cheat and that you de­serve de­ten­tion with me ev­ery Sat­ur­day un­til the end of term. “What do you think, Pot­ter?”

“I — I don’t agree, sir,” said Har­ry, still re­fus­ing to look in­to Snape’s eyes.

“Well, we shall see how you feel af­ter your de­ten­tions,” said Snape. “Ten o’clock Sat­ur­day morn­ing, Pot­ter. My of­fice.”

“But sir . . .” said Har­ry, look­ing up des­per­ate­ly. “Quid­ditch . . . the last match of the …”

“Ten o’clock,” whis­pered Snape, with a smile that showed his yel­low teeth. “Poor Gryffind­or. . . fourth place this year, I fear …”

And he left the bath­room with­out an­oth­er word, leav­ing Har­ry to stare in­to the cracked mir­ror, feel­ing sick­er, he was sure, than Ron had ev­er felt in his life.

“I won’t say ‘I told you so,’” said Hermione, an hour lat­er in the com­mon room.

“Leave it, Hermione,” said Ron an­gri­ly.

Har­ry had nev­er made it to din­ner; he had no ap­pe­tite at all. He had just fin­ished telling Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny what had hap­pened, not that there seemed to have been much need. The news had trav­eled very fast: Ap­par­ent­ly Moan­ing Myr­tle had tak­en it up­on her­self to pop up in ev­ery bath­room in the cas­tle to tell the sto­ry; Mal­foy had al­ready been vis­it­ed in the hos­pi­tal wing by Pan­sy Parkin­son, who had lost no time in vil­ify­ing Har­ry far and wide, and Snape had told the staff pre­cise­ly what had hap­pened. Har­ry had al­ready been called out of the com­mon room to en­dure fif­teen high­ly un­pleas­ant min­utes in the com­pa­ny of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who had told him he was lucky not to have been ex­pelled and that she sup­port­ed whole­heart­ed­ly Snape’s pun­ish­ment of de­ten­tion ev­ery Sat­ur­day un­til the end of term.

“I told you there was some­thing wrong with that Prince per­son,” Hermione said, ev­ident­ly un­able to stop her­self. “And I was right, wasn’t I.”

“No, I don’t think you were,” said Har­ry stub­born­ly.

He was hav­ing a bad enough time with­out Hermione lec­tur­ing him; the looks on the Gryffind­or team’s faces when he had told them he would not be able to play on Sat­ur­day had been the worst pun­ish­ment of all. He could feel Gin­ny’s eyes on him now but did not meet them; he did not want to see dis­ap­point­ment or anger there. He had just told her that she would be play­ing Seek­er on Sat­ur­day and that Dean would be re­join­ing the team as Chas­er in her place. Per­haps, if they won, Gin­ny and Dean would make up dur­ing the post­match eu­pho­ria. . . . The thought went through Har­ry like an icy knife. . . .

“Har­ry,” said Hermione, “how can you still stick up for that book when that spell —”

“Will you stop harp­ing on about the book!” snapped Har­ry. “The Prince on­ly copied it out! It’s not like he was ad­vis­ing any­one to use it! For all we know, he was mak­ing a note of some­thing that had been used against him!”

“I don’t be­lieve this,” said Hermione. “You’re ac­tu­al­ly de­fend­ing—

“I’m not de­fend­ing what I did!” said Har­ry quick­ly. “I wish 1 ; hadn’t done it, and not just be­cause I’ve got about a dozen de­ten­tions. You know I wouldn’t've used a spell like that, not even on Mal­foy, but you can’t blame the Prince, he hadn’t writ­ten ‘try this out, it’s re­al­ly good’ — he was just mak­ing notes for him­self, wasn’t he, not for any­one else. . . .”

“Are you telling me,” said Hermione, “that you’re go­ing to go back — ?”

“And get the book? Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry force­ful­ly. “Lis­ten, with­out the Prince I’d nev­er have won the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. I’d nev­er have known how to save Ron from poi­son­ing, I’d nev­er have —”

“— got a rep­uta­tion for Po­tions bril­liance you don’t de­serve,” said Hermione nas­ti­ly.

“Give it a rest, Hermione!” said Gin­ny, and Har­ry was so amazed, so grate­ful, he looked up. “By the sound of it, Mal­foy was try­ing to use an Un­for­giv­able Curse, you should be glad Har­ry had some­thing good up his sleeve!”

“Well, of course I’m glad Har­ry wasn’t cursed!” said Hermione, clear­ly stung. “But you can’t call that Sec­tum­sem­pra spell good, Gin­ny, look where it’s land­ed him! And I’d have thought, see­ing what this has done to your chances in the match —”

“Oh, don’t start act­ing as though you un­der­stand Quid­ditch,” snapped Gin­ny, “you’ll on­ly em­bar­rass your­self.”

Har­ry and Ron stared: Hermione and Gin­ny, who had al­ways got on to­geth­er very well, were now sit­ting with their arms fold­ed, glar­ing in op­po­site di­rec­tions. Ron looked ner­vous­ly at Har­ry, then snatched up a book at ran­dom and hid be­hind it. Har­ry, how­ev­er,

lit­tle though he knew he de­served it, felt un­be­liev­ably cheer­ful all of a sud­den, even though none of them spoke again for the rest of the evening.

His light­heart­ed­ness was short­lived. There were Slytherin taunts to be en­dured next day, not to men­tion much anger from fel­low Gryffind­ors, who were most un­hap­py that their Cap­tain had got him­self banned from the fi­nal match of the sea­son. By Sat­ur­day morn­ing, what­ev­er he might have told Hermione, Har­ry would have glad­ly ex­changed all the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis in the world to be walk­ing down to the Quid­ditch pitch with Ron, Gin­ny, and the oth­ers. It was al­most un­bear­able to turn away from the mass of stu­dents stream­ing out in­to the sun­shine, all of them wear­ing rosettes and hats and bran­dish­ing ban­ners and scarves, to de­scend the stone steps in­to the dun­geons and walk un­til the dis­tant sounds of the crowd were quite oblit­er­at­ed, know­ing that he would not be able to hear a word of com­men­tary or a cheer or groan.

“Ah, Pot­ter,” said Snape, when Har­ry had knocked on his door and en­tered the un­pleas­ant­ly fa­mil­iar of­fice that Snape, de­spite teach­ing floors above now, had not va­cat­ed; it was as dim­ly lit as ev­er and the same slimy dead ob­jects were sus­pend­ed in col­ored po­tions all around the walls. Omi­nous­ly, there were many cob­webbed box­es piled on a ta­ble where Har­ry was clear­ly sup­posed to sit; they had an au­ra of te­dious, hard, and point­less work about them.

“Mr. Filch has been look­ing for some­one to clear out these old files,” said Snape soft­ly. “They are the records of oth­er Hog­warts wrong­do­ers and their pun­ish­ments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the cards have suf­fered dam­age from mice, we would like you to copy out the crimes and pun­ish­ments afresh and, mak­ing sure that they are in al­pha­bet­ical or­der, re­place them in the box­es. You will not use mag­ic.”

“Right, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, with as much con­tempt as he could put in­to the last three syl­la­bles.

“I thought you could start,” said Snape, a ma­li­cious smile on his lips, “with box­es one thou­sand and twelve to one thou­sand and fiftysix. You will find some fa­mil­iar names in there, which should add in­ter­est to the task. Here, you see . . .”

He pulled out a card from one of the top­most box­es with a flour­ish and read, “James Pot­ter and Sir­ius Black. Ap­pre­hend­ed us­ing an il­le­gal hex up­on Bertram Aubrey. Aubreys head twice nor­mal size. Dou­ble de­ten­tion.” Snape sneered. “It must be such a com­fort­ing thing that, though they are gone, a record of their great achieve­ments re­mains.”

Har­ry felt the fa­mil­iar boil­ing sen­sa­tion in the pit of his stom­ach. Bit­ing his tongue to pre­vent him­self re­tal­iat­ing, he sat down in front of the box­es and pulled one to­ward him.

It was, as Har­ry had an­tic­ipat­ed, use­less, bor­ing work, punc­tu­at­ed (as Snape had clear­ly planned) with the reg­ular jolt in the stom­ach that meant he had just read his fa­ther or Sir­ius’s names, usu­al­ly cou­pled to­geth­er in var­ious pet­ty mis­deeds, oc­ca­sion­al­ly ac­com­pa­nied by those of Re­mus Lupin and Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew. And while he copied out all their var­ious of­fens­es and pun­ish­ments, he won­dered what was go­ing on out­side, where the match would have just start­ed . . . Gin­ny play­ing Seek­er against Cho . . .

Har­ry glanced again and again at the large clock tick­ing on the wall. It seemed to be mov­ing half as fast as a reg­ular clock; per­haps Snape had be­witched it to go ex­tra slow­ly? He could not have been here for on­ly half an hour … an hour … an hour and a half. . . .

Har­ry’s stom­ach start­ed rum­bling when the clock showed half past twelve. Snape, who had not spo­ken at all since set­ting Har­ry his task, fi­nal­ly looked up at ten past one.

“I think that will do,” he said cold­ly. “Mark the place you have reached. You will con­tin­ue at ten o’clock next Sat­ur­day.” Yes, sir.

Har­ry stuffed a bent card in­to the box at ran­dom and hur­ried out of the door be­fore Snape could change his mind, rac­ing back up the stone steps, strain­ing his ears to hear a sound from the pitch, but all was qui­et. … It was over, then. . . .

He hes­itat­ed out­side the crowd­ed Great Hall, then ran up the mar­ble stair­case; whether Gryffind­or had won or lost, the team usu­al­ly cel­ebrat­ed or com­mis­er­at­ed in their own com­mon room.

“Quid agis?” he said ten­ta­tive­ly to the Fat La­dy, won­der­ing what he would find in­side.

Her ex­pres­sion was un­read­able as she replied, “You’ll see.”

And she swung for­ward.

A roar of cel­ebra­tion erupt­ed from the hole be­hind her. Har­ry gaped as peo­ple be­gan to scream at the sight of him; sev­er­al hands pulled him in­to the room.

“We won!” yelled Ron, bound­ing in­to sight and bran­dish­ing the sil­ver Cup at Har­ry. “We won! Four hun­dred and fifty to a hun­dred and forty! We won!”

Har­ry looked around; there was Gin­ny run­ning to­ward him; she had a hard, blaz­ing look in her face as she threw her arms around him. And with­out think­ing, with­out plan­ning it, with­out wor­ry­ing about the fact that fifty peo­ple were watch­ing, Har­ry kissed her.

Af­ter sev­er­al long mo­ments — or it might have been half an hour — or pos­si­bly sev­er­al sun­lit days — they broke apart. The room had gone very qui­et. Then sev­er­al peo­ple wolfwhis­tled and there was an out­break of ner­vous gig­gling. Har­ry looked over the top of Gin­ny’s head to see Dean Thomas hold­ing a shat­tered glass in his hand, and Romil­da Vane look­ing as though she might throw some­thing. Hermione was beam­ing, but Har­ry’s eyes sought Ron. At last he found him, still clutch­ing the Cup and wear­ing an ex­pres­sion ap­pro­pri­ate to hav­ing been clubbed over the head. For a frac­tion of a sec­ond they looked at each oth­er, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the head that Har­ry un­der­stood to mean, Well—if you must.

The crea­ture in his chest roar­ing in tri­umph, he grinned down at Gin­ny and ges­tured word­less­ly out of the por­trait hole. A long walk in the grounds seemed in­di­cat­ed, dur­ing which — if they had time — they might dis­cuss the match.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 25: The Seer Overheard


The fact that Har­ry Pot­ter was go­ing out with Gin­ny Weasley seemed to in­ter­est a great num­ber of peo­ple, most of them girls, yet Har­ry found him­self new­ly and hap­pi­ly im­per­vi­ous to gos­sip over the next few weeks. Af­ter all, it made a very nice change to be talked about be­cause of some­thing that was mak­ing him hap­pi­er than he could re­mem­ber be­ing for a very long time, rather than be­cause he had been in­volved in hor­rif­ic scenes of Dark mag­ic.

‘You’d think peo­ple had bet­ter things to gos­sip about,’ said Gin­ny, as she sat on the com­mon­room floor, lean­ing against Har­ry’s legs and read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet. Three De­men­tor at­tacks in a week, and all Romil­da Vane does is ask me if it’s true you’ve got a Hip­pogriff tat­tooed across your chest.’

Ron and Hermione both roared with laugh­ter. Har­ry ig­nored them.

‘What did you tell her?’

‘ ? told her it’s a Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail,’ said Gin­ny, turn­ing a page of the news­pa­per idly. ‘Much more ma­cho.’

Thanks,’ said Har­ry, grin­ning. ‘And what did you tell her Ron’s got?’

‘A Pygmy Puff, but I didn’t say where.’

Ron scowled as Hermione rolled around laugh­ing.

‘Watch it,’ he said, point­ing wam­ing­ly at Har­ry and Gin­ny. ‘Just be­cause I’ve giv­en my per­mis­sion doesn’t mean I can’t with­draw it -’

“Tour per­mis­sion”,’ scoffed Gin­ny. ‘Since when did you give me per­mis­sion to do any­thing? Any­way, you said your­self you’d rather it was Har­ry than Michael or Dean.’

‘Yeah, 1 would,’ said Ron grudg­ing­ly. ‘And just as long as you don’t start snog­ging each oth­er in pub­lic -’

‘You filthy hyp­ocrite! What about you and Laven­der, thrash­ing around like a pair of eels all over the place?’ de­mand­ed Gin­ny.

But Ron’s tol­er­an­ce was not to be test­ed much as they moved in­to June, for Har­ry and Gin­ny’s time to­geth­er was be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly re­strict­ed. Gin­ny’s O.W.L.s were ap­proach­ing and she was there­fore forced to re­vise for hours in­to the night. On one such evening, when Gin­ny had re­tired to the li­brary and Har­ry was sit­ting be­side the win­dow in the com­mon room, sup­pos­ed­ly fin­ish­ing his Her­bol­ogy home­work but in re­al­ity re­liv­ing a par­tic­ular­ly hap­py hour he had spent down by the lake with Gin­ny at lunchtime, Hermione dropped in­to the seat be­tween him and Ron with an un­pleas­ant­ly pur­pose­ful look on her face.

‘I want to talk to you, Har­ry.’

‘What about?’ said Har­ry sus­pi­cious­ly. On­ly the pre­vi­ous day, Hermione had told him off for dis­tract­ing Gin­ny when she ought to be work­ing hard for her ex­am­ina­tions.

The so­called Half­Blood Prince.’

‘Oh, not again,’ he groaned. ‘Will you please drop it?’

He had not dared to re­turn to the Room of Re­quire­ment to re­trieve his book, and his per­for­mance in Po­tions was suf­fer­ing ac­cord­ing­ly (though Slughorn, who ap­proved of Gin­ny, had joc­ular­ly at­trib­ut­ed this to Har­ry be­ing lovesick). But Har­ry was sure that Snape had not yet giv­en up hope of lay­ing hands on the Prince’s book, and was de­ter­mined to leave it where it was while Snape re­mained on the look­out.

‘I’m not drop­ping it,’ said Hermione firm­ly, ‘un­til you’ve heard me out. Now, I’ve been try­ing to find out a bit about who might make a hob­by of in­vent­ing Dark spells -’

‘He didn’t make a hob­by of it -’

‘He, he - who says it’s a he?’

‘We’ve been through this,’ said Har­ry cross­ly. ‘Prince, Hermione, Prince!’

‘Right!’ said Hermione, red patch­es blaz­ing in her cheeks as she pulled a very old piece of newsprint out of her pock­et and slammed it down on the ta­ble in front of Har­ry. ‘Look at that! Look at the pic­ture!’

Har­ry picked up the crum­bling piece of pa­per and stared at the mov­ing pho­to­graph, yel­lowed with age; Ron leaned over for a look, too. The pic­ture showed a skin­ny girl of around fif­teen. She was not pret­ty; she looked si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly cross and sullen, with heavy brows and a long, pal­lid face. Un­der­neath the pho­to­graph was the cap­tion: Eileen Prince, Cap­tain of the Hog­warts Gob­stones Team.

‘So?’ said Har­ry, scan­ning the short news item to which the pic­ture be­longed; it was a rather dull sto­ry about in­ter­school com­pe­ti­tions.

‘Her name was Eileen Prince. Prince, Har­ry.’

They looked at each oth­er and Har­ry re­alised what Hermione was try­ing to say. He burst out laugh­ing.

‘No way.’

‘What?’

‘You think she was the Half­Blood …? Oh, come on.’

‘Well, why not? Har­ry, there aren’t any re­al princes in the wiz­ard­ing world! It’s ei­ther a nick­name, a made­up ti­tle some­body’s giv­en them­selves, or it could be their ac­tu­al name, couldn’t it? No, lis­ten! If, say, her fa­ther was a wiz­ard

whose sur­name was “Prince”, and her moth­er was a Mug­gle, then that would make her a “half­blood Prince”!’

‘Yeah, very in­ge­nious, Hermione …’

‘But it would! Maybe she was proud of be­ing half a Prince!’

‘Lis­ten, Hermione, I can tell it’s not a girl. I can just tell.’

The truth is that you don’t think a girl would have been clever enough,’ said Hermione an­gri­ly.

‘How can I have hung round with you for five years and not think girls are clever?’ said Har­ry, stung by this. ‘It’s the way he writes. I just know the Prince was a bloke, I can tell. This girl hasn’t got any­thing to do with it. Where did you get this, any­way?’

‘The li­brary,’ said Hermione, pre­dictably. There’s a whole col­lec­tion of old Prophets up there. Well, I’m go­ing to find out more about Eileen Prince if I can.’

‘En­joy your­self,’ said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly.

‘I will,’ said Hermione. ‘And the first place I’ll look,’ she shot at him, as she reached the por­trait hole, ‘is records of old Po­tions awards!’

Har­ry scowled af­ter her for a mo­ment, then con­tin­ued his con­tem­pla­tion of the dark­en­ing sky.

‘She’s just nev­er got over you out­per­form­ing her in Po­tions,’ said Ron, re­turn­ing to his copy of One Thou­sand Mag­ical Herbs and Fun­gi.

‘You don’t think I’m mad, want­ing that book back, do you?’

‘Course not,’ said Ron ro­bust­ly. ‘He was a ge­nius, the Prince. Any­way … with­out his be­zoar tip …’ he drew his fin­ger sig­nif­icant­ly across his own throat, ‘I wouldn’t be here to dis­cuss it, would I? I mean, I’m not say­ing that spell you used on Mal­foy was great -’

‘Nor am I,’ said Har­ry quick­ly.

‘But he healed all right, didn’t he? Back on his feet in no time.’

‘Yeah,’ said Har­ry; this was per­fect­ly true, al­though his con­sci­ence squirmed slight­ly all the same. Thanks to Snape …’

‘You still got de­ten­tion with Snape this Sat­ur­day?’ Ron con­tin­ued.

‘Yeah, and the Sat­ur­day af­ter that, and the Sat­ur­day af­ter that,’ sighed Har­ry. ‘And he’s hint­ing now that if I don’t get all the box­es done by the end of term, we’ll car­ry on next year.’

He was find­ing these de­ten­tions par­tic­ular­ly irk­some be­cause they cut in­to the al­ready lim­it­ed time he could have been spend­ing with Gin­ny. In­deed, he had fre­quent­ly won­dered late­ly whether Snape did not know this, for he was keep­ing Har­ry lat­er and lat­er ev­ery time, while mak­ing point­ed asides about Har­ry hav­ing to miss the good weath­er and the var­ied op­por­tu­ni­ties it of­fered.

Har­ry was shak­en from these bit­ter re­flec­tions by the ap­pear­an­ce at his side of Jim­my Peakes, who was hold­ing out a scroll of parch­ment.

‘Thanks, Jim­my … hey, it’s from Dum­ble­dore!’ said Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly, un­rolling the parch­ment and scan­ning it. ‘He wants me to go to his of­fice as quick as 1 can!’

They stared at each oth­er.

‘Blimey,’ whis­pered Ron. ‘You don’t reck­on … he hasn’t found …?’

‘Bet­ter go and see, hadn’t I?’ said Har­ry, jump­ing to his feet.

He hur­ried out of the com­mon room and along the sev­enth floor as fast as he could, pass­ing no­body but Peeves, who swooped past in the op­po­site di­rec­tion, throw­ing bits of chalk at Har­ry in a rou­tine sort of way and cack­ling loud­ly as he dodged Har­ry’s de­fen­sive jinx. Once Peeves had van­ished, there was si­lence in the cor­ri­dors; with on­ly fif­teen min­utes left un­til cur­few, most peo­ple had al­ready re­turned to their com­mon rooms.

And then Har­ry heard a scream and a crash. He stopped in his tracks, lis­ten­ing.

‘How - dare - you - aaaaargh!’

The noise was com­ing from a cor­ri­dor near­by; Har­ry sprint­ed to­wards it, his wand at the ready, hur­tled round an­oth­er cor­ner and saw Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sprawled up­on the floor, her head cov­ered in one of her many shawls, sev­er­al sher­ry bot­tles ly­ing be­side her, one bro­ken.

‘Pro­fes­sor -’

Har­ry hur­ried for­wards and helped Pro­fes­sor Trelawney to her feet. Some of her glit­ter­ing beads had be­come en­tan­gled with her glass­es. She hic­coughed loud­ly, pat­ted her hair and pulled her­self up on Har­ry’s help­ing arm.

‘What hap­pened, Pro­fes­sor?’

‘You may well ask!’ she said shril­ly. ‘I was strolling along, brood­ing up­on cer­tain Dark por­tents 1 hap­pen to have glimpsed …’

But Har­ry was not pay­ing much at­ten­tion. He had just no­ticed where they were stand­ing: there on the right was the tapestry of danc­ing trolls and, on the left, that smooth­ly im­pen­etra­ble stretch of stone wall that con­cealed -

‘Pro­fes­sor, were you try­ing to get in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment?’

‘… omens I have been vouch­safed - what?’

She looked sud­den­ly shifty.

The Room of Re­quire­ment,’ re­peat­ed Har­ry. ‘Were you try­ing to get in there?’

‘I - well - I didn’t know stu­dents knew about -’

‘Not all of them do,’ said Har­ry. ‘But what hap­pened? You screamed … it sound­ed as though you were hurt…’

‘I - well,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, draw­ing her shawls around her de­fen­sive­ly and star­ing down at him with her vast­ly mag­ni­fied eyes. ‘I wished to - ah - de­posit cer­tain – um - per­son­al items in the Room …’ And she mut­tered some­thing about ‘nasty ac­cu­sa­tions’.

‘Right,’ said Har­ry, glanc­ing down at the sher­ry bot­tles. ‘But you couldn’t get in and hide them?’

He found this very odd; the Room had opened for him, af­ter all, when he had want­ed to hide the Half­Blood Prince’s book.

‘Oh, I got in all right,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, glar­ing at the wall. ‘But there was some­body al­ready in there.’

‘Some­body in -? Who?’ de­mand­ed Har­ry. ‘Who was in there?’

‘ ? have no idea,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, look­ing slight­ly tak­en aback at the ur­gen­cy in Har­ry’s voice. ‘I walked in­to the Room and I heard a voice, which has nev­er hap­pened be­fore in all my years of hid­ing - of us­ing the Room, I mean.’

‘A voice? Say­ing what?’

‘I don’t know that it was say­ing any­thing,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. ‘It was … whoop­ing.’

‘Whoop­ing?’

‘Glee­ful­ly,’ she said, nod­ding.

Har­ry stared at her.

‘Was it male or fe­male?’

‘ ? would haz­ard a guess at male,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

‘And it sound­ed hap­py?’

‘Very hap­py,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney snif­fi­ly.

‘As though it was cel­ebrat­ing?’

‘Most def­inite­ly.’

‘And then -?’

‘And then I called out, “Who’s there?”‘

‘You couldn’t have found out who it was with­out ask­ing?’ Har­ry asked her, slight­ly frus­trat­ed.

‘The In­ner Eye,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney with dig­ni­ty, straight­en­ing her shawls and many strands of glit­ter­ing beads, ‘was fixed up­on mat­ters well out­side the mun­dane realms of whoop­ing voic­es.’

‘Right,’ said Har­ry hasti­ly; he had heard about Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s In­ner Eye all too of­ten be­fore. ‘And did the voice say who was there?’

‘No, it did not,’ she said. ‘Ev­ery­thing went pitch black and the next thing I knew, I was be­ing hurled head­first out of the Room!’

‘And you didn’t see that com­ing?’ said Har­ry, un­able to help him­self.

‘No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch -’ She stopped and glared at him sus­pi­cious­ly.

‘I think you’d bet­ter tell Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,’ said Har­ry. ‘He ought to know Mal­foy’s cel­ebrat­ing - I mean, that some­one threw you out of the Room.’

To his sur­prise, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney drew her­self up at this sug­ges­tion, look­ing haughty.

The Head­mas­ter has in­ti­mat­ed that he would pre­fer few­er vis­its from me,’ she said cold­ly. I am not one to press my com­pa­ny up­on those who do not val­ue it. If Dum­ble­dore choos­es to ig­nore the warn­in­gs the cards show -’

Her bony hand closed sud­den­ly around Har­ry’s wrist.

‘Again and again, no mat­ter how I lay them out -’

And she pulled a card dra­mat­ical­ly from un­der­neath her shawls.

‘- the light­ningstruck tow­er,’ she whis­pered. ‘Cala­mi­ty. Dis­as­ter. Com­ing near­er all the time …’

‘Right,’ said Har­ry again. ‘Well … I still think you should tell Dum­ble­dore about this voice and ev­ery­thing go­ing dark and be­ing thrown out of the Room …’

‘You think so?’ Pro­fes­sor Trelawney seemed to con­sid­er the mat­ter for a mo­ment, but Har­ry could tell that she liked the idea of retelling her lit­tle ad­ven­ture.

‘I’m go­ing to see him right now,’ said Har­ry. ‘I’ve got a meet­ing with him. We could go to­geth­er.’

‘Oh, well, in that case,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney with a smile. She bent down, scooped up her sher­ry bot­tles and dumped them un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly in a large blue and white vase stand­ing in a near­by niche.

‘I miss hav­ing you in my class­es, Har­ry,’ she said soul­ful­ly, as they set off to­geth­er. ‘You were nev­er much of a Seer … but you were a won­der­ful Ob­ject…’

Har­ry did not re­ply; he had loathed be­ing the Ob­ject of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s con­tin­ual pre­dic­tions of doom.

‘I am afraid,’ she went on, ‘that the nag - I’m sor­ry, the cen­taur - knows noth­ing of car­toman­cy. I asked him - one Seer to an­oth­er - had he not, too, sensed the dis­tant vi­bra­tions of com­ing catas­tro­phe? But he seemed to find me al­most com­ical. Yes, com­ical!’

Her voice rose rather hys­ter­ical­ly and Har­ry caught a pow­er­ful whiff of sher­ry even though the bot­tles had been left be­hind.

‘Per­haps the horse has heard peo­ple say that I have not in­her­it­ed my great­great­grand­moth­er’s gift. Those ru­mours have been bandied about by the jeal­ous for years. You know what I say to such peo­ple, Har­ry? Would Dum­ble­dore have let me teach at this great school, put so much trust in me all these years, had I not proved my­self to him?’

Har­ry mum­bled some­thing in­dis­tinct.

‘I well re­mem­ber my first in­ter­view with Dum­ble­dore,’ went on Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in throaty tones. ‘He was deeply im­pressed, of course, deeply im­pressed … I was stay­ing at the Hog’s Head, which I do not ad­vise, in­ci­den­tal­ly - bed bugs, dear boy - but funds were low. Dum­ble­dore did me the cour­tesy of call­ing up­on me in my room at the inn. He ques­tioned me … I must con­fess that, at first, I thought he seemed illd­is­posed to­wards Div­ina­tion … and I re­mem­ber I was start­ing to feel a lit­tle odd, I had not eat­en much that day … but then …’

And now Har­ry was pay­ing at­ten­tion prop­er­ly for the first time, for he knew what had hap­pened then: Pro­fes­sor Trelawney had made the prophe­cy that had al­tered the course of his whole life, the prophe­cy about him and Volde­mort.

‘… but then we were rude­ly in­ter­rupt­ed by Severus Snape!’

‘What?’

‘Yes, there was a com­mo­tion out­side the door and it flew open, and there was that rather un­couth bar­man stand­ing with Snape, who was waf­fling about hav­ing come the wrong way up the stairs, al­though I’m afraid that I my­self rather thought he had been ap­pre­hend­ed eaves­drop­ping on my in­ter­view with Dum­ble­dore - you see, he him­self was seek­ing a job at the time, and no doubt hoped to pick up tips! Well, af­ter that, you know, Dum­ble­dore seemed much more dis­posed to give me a job, and I could not help think­ing, Har­ry, that it was be­cause he ap­pre­ci­at­ed the stark con­trast be­tween my own unas­sum­ing man­ners and qui­et tal­ent, com­pared to the push­ing, thrust­ing young man who was pre­pared to lis­ten at key­holes - Har­ry, dear?’

She looked back over her shoul­der, hav­ing on­ly just re­al­ised that Har­ry was no longer with her; he had stopped walk­ing and they were now ten feet from each oth­er.

‘Har­ry?’ she re­peat­ed un­cer­tain­ly.

Per­haps his face was white, to make her look so con­cerned and fright­ened. Har­ry was stand­ing stock­still as waves of shock crashed over him, wave af­ter wave, oblit­er­at­ing ev­ery­thing ex­cept the in­for­ma­tion that had been kept from him for so long …

It was Snape who had over­heard the prophe­cy. It was Snape who had car­ried the news of the prophe­cy to Volde­mort. Snape and Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew to­geth­er had sent Volde­mort hunt­ing af­ter Lily and James and their son …

Noth­ing else mat­tered to Har­ry just now.

‘Har­ry?’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney again. ‘Har­ry - I thought we were go­ing to see the Head­mas­ter to­geth­er?’

‘You stay here,’ said Har­ry through numb lips.

‘But, dear … I was go­ing to tell him how I was as­sault­ed in the Room of-’

‘You stay here!’ Har­ry re­peat­ed an­gri­ly.

She looked alarmed as he ran past her, round the cor­ner in­to Dum­ble­dore’s cor­ri­dor, where the lone gar­goyle stood sen­try. Har­ry shout­ed the pass­word at the gar­goyle and ran up the mov­ing spi­ral stair­case three steps at a time. He did not knock up­on Dum­ble­dore’s door, he ham­mered; and the calm voice an­swered ‘En­ter’ af­ter Har­ry had al­ready flung him­self in­to the room.

Fawkes the phoenix looked round, his bright black eyes gleam­ing with re­flect­ed gold from the sun­set be­yond the win­dow. Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing at the win­dow look­ing out at the grounds, a long, black trav­el­ling cloak in his arms.

‘Well, Har­ry, I promised that you could come with me.’

For a mo­ment or two, Har­ry did not un­der­stand; the con­ver­sa­tion with Trelawney had driv­en ev­ery­thing else out of his head and his brain seemed to be mov­ing very slow­ly.

‘Come … with you … ?’

‘On­ly if you wish it, of course.’

‘If I…’

And then Har­ry re­mem­bered why he had been ea­ger to come to Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice in the first place.

‘You’ve found one? You’ve found a Hor­crux?’

‘I be­lieve so.’

Rage and re­sent­ment fought shock and ex­cite­ment: for sev­er­al mo­ments, Har­ry could not speak.

‘It is nat­ural to be afraid,’ said Dum­ble­dore.

‘I’m not scared!’ said Har­ry at once, and it was per­fect­ly

true; fear was one emo­tion he was not feel­ing at all. ‘Which Hor­crux is it? Where is it?’

‘I am not sure which it is - though I think we can rule out the snake - but I be­lieve it to be hid­den in a cave on the coast many miles from here, a cave I have been try­ing to lo­cate for a very long time: the cave in which Tom Rid­dle once ter­ror­ised two chil­dren from his or­phan­age on their an­nu­al trip; you re­mem­ber?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry. ‘How is it pro­tect­ed?’

‘I do not know; I have sus­pi­cions that may be en­tire­ly wrong.’ Dum­ble­dore hes­itat­ed, then said, ‘Har­ry, I promised you that you could come with me, and I stand by that prom­ise, but it would be very wrong of me not to warn you that this will be ex­ceed­ing­ly dan­ger­ous.’

‘I’m com­ing,’ said Har­ry, al­most be­fore Dum­ble­dore had fin­ished speak­ing. Boil­ing with anger at Snape, his de­sire to do some­thing des­per­ate and risky had in­creased ten­fold in the last few min­utes. This seemed to show on Har­ry’s face, for Dum­ble­dore moved away from the win­dow, and looked more close­ly at Har­ry, a slight crease be­tween his sil­ver eye­brows.

‘What has hap­pened to you?’

‘Noth­ing,’ lied Har­ry prompt­ly.

‘What has up­set you?’

‘I’m not up­set.’

‘Har­ry, you were nev­er a good Oc­clu­mens -’

The word was the spark that ig­nit­ed Har­ry’s fury.

‘Snape!’ he said, very loud­ly, and Fawkes gave a soft squawk be­hind them. ‘Snape’s what’s hap­pened! He told Volde­mort about the prophe­cy, it was him, he lis­tened out­side the door, Trelawney told me!’

Dum­ble­dore’s ex­pres­sion did not change, but Har­ry thought his face whitened un­der the bloody tinge cast by the set­ting sun. For a long mo­ment, Dum­ble­dore said noth­ing.

‘When did you find out about this?’ he asked at last.

‘Just now!’ said Many, who was re­frain­ing from yelling with enor­mous dif­fi­cul­ty. And then, sud­den­ly, he could not stop him­self. ‘AND YOU LET HIM TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDE­MORT TO GO AF­TER MY MUM AND DAD!’

Breath­ing hard as though he were fight­ing, Har­ry turned away from Dum­ble­dore, who still had not moved a mus­cle, and paced up and down the study, rub­bing his knuck­les in his hand and ex­er­cis­ing ev­ery last bit of re­straint to pre­vent him­self knock­ing things over. He want­ed to rage and storm at Dum­ble­dore, but he al­so want­ed to go with him to try and de­stroy the Hor­crux; he want­ed to tell him that he was a fool­ish old man for trust­ing Snape, but he was ter­ri­fied that Dum­ble­dore would not take him along un­less he mas­tered his anger …

‘Har­ry,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘Please lis­ten to me.’

It was as dif­fi­cult to stop his re­lent­less pac­ing as to re­frain from shout­ing. Har­ry paused, bit­ing his lip, and looked in­to Dum­ble­dore’s lined face.

‘Pro­fes­sor Snape made a ter­ri­ble -’

‘Don’t tell me it was a mis­take, sir, he was lis­ten­ing at the door!’

‘Please let me fin­ish.’ Dum­ble­dore wait­ed un­til Har­ry had nod­ded curt­ly, then went on. ‘Pro­fes­sor Snape made a ter­ri­ble mis­take. He was still in Lord Volde­mort’s em­ploy on the night he heard the first half of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney’s prophe­cy. Nat­ural­ly, he has­tened to tell his mas­ter what he had heard, for it con­cerned his mas­ter most deeply. But he did not know - he had no pos­si­ble way of know­ing - which boy Volde­mort would hunt from then on­wards, or that the par­ents he would de­stroy in his mur­der­ous quest were peo­ple that Pro­fes­sor Snape knew, that they were your moth­er and fa­ther -’

Har­ry let out a yell of mirth­less laugh­ter.

‘He hat­ed my dad like he hat­ed Sir­ius! Haven’t you no­ticed, Pro­fes­sor, how the peo­ple Snape hates tend to end up dead?’

‘You have no idea of the re­morse Pro­fes­sor Snape felt when he re­alised how Lord Volde­mort had in­ter­pret­ed the prophe­cy, Har­ry. I be­lieve it to be the great­est re­gret of his life and the rea­son that he re­turned -’

‘But he’s a very good Oc­clu­mens, isn’t he, sir?’ said Har­ry, whose voice was shak­ing with the ef­fort of keep­ing it steady. ‘And isn’t Volde­mort con­vinced that Snape’s on his side, even now? Pro­fes­sor … how can you be sure Snape’s on our side?’

Dum­ble­dore did not speak for a mo­ment; he looked as though he was try­ing to make up his mind about some­thing. At last he said, ‘I am sure. I trust Severus Snape com­plete­ly.’

Har­ry breathed deeply for a few mo­ments in an ef­fort to steady him­self. It did not work.

‘Well, I don’t!’ he said, as loud­ly as be­fore. ‘He’s up to some­thing with Dra­co Mal­foy right now, right un­der your nose, and you still -’

‘We have dis­cussed this, Har­ry,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and now he sound­ed stern again. ‘I have told you my views.’

‘You’re leav­ing the school tonight and I’ll bet you haven’t even con­sid­ered that Snape and Mal­foy might de­cide to -’

To what?’ asked Dum­ble­dore, his eye­brows raised. ‘What is it that you sus­pect them of do­ing, pre­cise­ly?’

‘I … they’re up to some­thing!’ said Har­ry and his hands curled in­to fists as he said it. ‘Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was just in the Room of Re­quire­ment, try­ing to hide her sher­ry bot­tles, and she heard Mal­foy whoop­ing, cel­ebrat­ing! He’s try­ing to mend some­thing dan­ger­ous in there and if you ask me he’s fixed it at last and you’re about to just walk out of school * with­out -’

‘Enough,’ said Dum­ble­dore. He said it quite calm­ly, and yet Har­ry fell silent at once; he knew that he had fi­nal­ly crossed some in­vis­ible line. ‘Do you think that I have once left the school un­pro­tect­ed dur­ing my ab­sences this year? I have not. Tonight, when I leave, there will again be ad­di­tion­al pro­tec­tion in place. Please do not sug­gest that I do not take the safe­ty of my stu­dents se­ri­ous­ly, Har­ry.’

‘I didn’t -’ mum­bled Har­ry, a lit­tle abashed, but Dum­ble­dore cut across him.

‘ ? do not wish to dis­cuss the mat­ter any fur­ther.’

Har­ry bit back his re­tort, scared that he had gone too far, that he had ru­in­ed his chance of ac­com­pa­ny­ing Dum­ble­dore, but Dum­ble­dore went on, ‘Do you wish to come with me tonight?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry at once.

‘Very well, then: lis­ten.’

Dum­ble­dore drew him­self up to his full height.

‘I take you with me on one con­di­tion: that you obey any com­mand I might give you at once, and with­out ques­tion.’

‘Of course.’

‘Be sure to un­der­stand me, Har­ry. I mean that you must fol­low even such or­ders as “run”, “hide” or “go back”. Do I have your word?’

‘I - yes, of course.’

‘If 1 tell you to hide, you will do so?’

‘Yes.’

‘If I tell you to flee, you will obey?’

‘Yes.’

‘If I tell you to leave me, and save your­self, you will do as I tell you?’

‘I -’

‘Har­ry?’

They looked at each oth­er for a mo­ment.

‘Yes, sir.’

‘Very good. Then I wish you to go and fetch your Cloak and meet me in the En­trance Hall in five min­utes’ time.’

Dum­ble­dore turned back to look out of the fiery win­dow; the sun was now a ru­byred glare along the hori­zon. Har­ry walked quick­ly from the of­fice and down the spi­ral stair­case. His mind was odd­ly clear all of a sud­den. He knew what to do.

Ron and Hermione were sit­ting to­geth­er in the com­mon room when he came back. ‘What does Dum­ble­dore want?’ Hermione said at once. ‘Har­ry, are you OK?’ she added anx­ious­ly.

‘I’m fine,’ said Har­ry short­ly, rac­ing past them. He dashed up the stairs and in­to his dor­mi­to­ry, where he flung open his trunk and pulled out the Ma­raud­er’s Map and a pair of balledup socks. Then he sped back down the stairs and in­to the com­mon room, skid­ding to a halt where Ron and Hermione sat, look­ing stunned.

‘I haven’t got much time,’ Har­ry pant­ed, ‘Dum­ble­dore thinks I’m get­ting my In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Lis­ten …’

Quick­ly he told them where he was go­ing, and why. He did not pause ei­ther for Hermione’s gasps of hor­ror or for Ron’s hasty ques­tions; they could work out the fin­er de­tails for them­selves lat­er.

‘… so you see what this means?’ Har­ry fin­ished at a gal­lop. ‘Dum­ble­dore won’t be here tonight, so Mal­foy’s go­ing to have an­oth­er clear shot at what­ev­er he’s up to. No, lis­ten to me!” he hissed an­gri­ly, as both Ron and Hermione showed ev­ery sign of in­ter­rupt­ing. ‘I know it was Mal­foy cel­ebrat­ing in the Room of Re­quire­ment. Here -’ He shoved the Ma­raud­er’s Map in­to Hermione’s hand. ‘You’ve got to watch him and you’ve got to watch Snape, too. Use any­one else who you can rus­tle up from the DA. Hermione, those con­tact Galleons will still work, right? Dum­ble­dore says he’s put ex­tra pro­tec­tion in the school, but if Snape’s in­volved, he’ll know what Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion is, and how to avoid it - but he won’t be ex­pect­ing you lot to be on the watch, will he?’

‘Har­ry -’ be­gan Hermione, her eyes huge with fear.

‘ ? haven’t got time to ar­gue,’ said Har­ry curt­ly. Take this as well -’ He thrust the socks in­to Ron’s hands.

‘Thanks,’ said Ron. ‘Er - why do I need socks?’

‘You need what’s wrapped in them, it’s the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. Share it be­tween your­selves and Gin­ny too. Say good­bye to her from me. I’d bet­ter go, Dum­ble­dore’s wait­ing -’

‘No!’ said Hermione, as Ron un­wrapped the tiny lit­tle bot­tle of gold­en po­tion, look­ing awestruck. ‘We don’t want it, you take it, who knows what you’re go­ing to be fac­ing?’

‘I’Il be fine, I’ll be with Dum­ble­dore,’ said Har­ry. ‘I want to know you lot are OK … don’t look like that, Hermione, I’ll see you lat­er

And he was off, hur­ry­ing back through the por­trait hole to­wards the En­trance Hall.

Dum­ble­dore was wait­ing be­side the oak­en front doors. He turned as Har­ry came skid­ding out on to the top­most stone step, pant­ing hard, a sear­ing stitch in his side.

‘I would like you to wear your Cloak, please,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and he wait­ed un­til Har­ry had thrown it on be­fore say­ing, ‘Very good. Shall we go?’

Dum­ble­dore set off at once down the stone steps, his own trav­el­ling cloak bare­ly stir­ring in the still sum­mer air. Har­ry hur­ried along­side him un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, still pant­ing and sweat­ing rather a lot.

‘But what will peo­ple think when they see you leav­ing, Pro­fes­sor?’ Har­ry asked, his mind on Mal­foy and Snape.

That I am off in­to Hogsmeade for a drink,’ said Dum­ble­dore light­ly. ‘I some­times of­fer Ros­mer­ta my cus­tom, or else vis­it the Hog’s Head … or I ap­pear to. It is as good a way as any of dis­guis­ing one’s true des­ti­na­tion.’

They made their way down the drive in the gath­er­ing twi­light. The air was full of the smells of warm grass, lake wa­ter and wood smoke from Ha­grid’s cab­in. It was dif­fi­cult to be­lieve that they were head­ing for any­thing dan­ger­ous or fright­en­ing.

‘Pro­fes­sor,’ said Har­ry qui­et­ly, as the gates at the bot­tom of the drive came in­to view, ‘will we be Ap­pa­rat­ing?’

‘Yes,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘You can Ap­pa­rate now, I be­lieve?’

‘Yes,’ said Har­ry, ‘but I haven’t got a li­cence.’

He felt it best to be hon­est; what if he spoiled ev­ery­thing by turn­ing up a hun­dred miles from where he was sup­posed to go?

‘No mat­ter,’ said Dum­ble­dore, ‘I can as­sist you again.’

They turned out of the gates in­to the twilit, de­sert­ed lane to Hogsmeade. Dark­ness de­scend­ed fast as they walked and by the time they reached the High Street night was falling in earnest. Lights twin­kled from win­dows over shops and as they neared the Three Broom­sticks they heard rau­cous shout­ing.

‘- and stay out!’ shout­ed Madam Ros­mer­ta, forcibly eject­ing a grub­by­look­ing wiz­ard. ‘Oh, hel­lo, Al­bus … you’re out late …’

‘Good evening, Ros­mer­ta, good evening … for­give me, I’m off to the Hog’s Head … no of­fence, but I feel like a qui­eter at­mo­sphere tonight…’

A minute lat­er they turned the cor­ner in­to the side street where the Hog’s Head’s sign creaked a lit­tle, though there was no breeze. In con­trast to the Three Broom­sticks, the pub ap­peared to be com­plete­ly emp­ty.

‘It will not be nec­es­sary for us to en­ter,’ mut­tered Dum­ble­dore, glanc­ing around. ‘As long as no­body sees us go … now place your hand up­on my arm, Har­ry. There is no need to grip too hard, I am mere­ly guid­ing you. On the count of three - one … two … three …’

Har­ry turned. At once, there was that hor­ri­ble sen­sa­tion that he was be­ing squeezed through a thick rub­ber tube; he could not draw breath, ev­ery part of him was be­ing com­pressed al­most past en­du­rance and then, just when he thought he must suf­fo­cate, the in­vis­ible bands seemed to burst open, and he was stand­ing in cool dark­ness, breath­ing in lung­fuls of fresh, salty air.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 26: The Cave


Har­ry could smell salt and hear rush­ing waves; a light, chilly breeze ruf­fled his hair as he looked out at moon­lit sea and starstrewn sky. He was stand­ing up­on a high out­crop of dark rock, wa­ter foam­ing and churn­ing be­low him. He glanced over his shoul­der. A tow­er­ing cliff stood be­hind them, a sheer drop, black and face­less. A few large chunks of rock, such as the one up­on which Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore were stand­ing, looked as though they had bro­ken away from the cliff face at some point in the past. It was a bleak, harsh view, the sea and the rock un­re­lieved by any tree or sweep of grass or sand.

“What do you think?” asked Dum­ble­dore. He might have been ask­ing Har­ry’s opin­ion on whether it was a good site for a pic­nic.

“They brought the kids from the or­phan­age here?” asked Har­ry, who could not imag­ine a less cozy spot for a day trip.

“Not here, pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is a vil­lage of sorts about halfway along the cliffs be­hind us. I be­lieve the or­phans were tak­en there for a lit­tle sea air and a view of the waves. No, I think it was on­ly ev­er Tom Rid­dle and his youth­ful vic­tims who vis­it­ed this spot. No Mug­gle could reach this rock un­less they were un­com­mon­ly good moun­taineers, and boats can­not ap­proach the cliffs, the wa­ters around them are too dan­ger­ous. I imag­ine that Rid­dle climbed down; mag­ic would have served bet­ter than ropes. And he brought two small chil­dren with him, prob­ably for the plea­sure of ter­ror­iz­ing them. I think the jour­ney alone would have done it, don’t you?”

Har­ry looked up at the cliff again and felt goose bumps.

“But his fi­nal des­ti­na­tion — and ours — lies a lit­tle far­ther on. Come.”

Dum­ble­dore beck­oned Har­ry to the very edge of the rock where a se­ries of jagged nich­es made footholds lead­ing down to boul­ders that lay half­sub­merged in wa­ter and clos­er to the cliff. It was a treach­er­ous de­scent and Dum­ble­dore, ham­pered slight­ly by his with­ered hand, moved slow­ly. The low­er rocks were slip­pery with sea­wa­ter. Har­ry could feel flecks of cold salt spray hit­ting his face. “Lu­mos,” said Dum­ble­dore, as he reached the boul­der clos­est to the cliff face. A thou­sand flecks of gold­en light sparkled up­on the dark sur­face of the wa­ter a few feet be­low where he crouched; the black wall of rock be­side him was il­lu­mi­nat­ed too. “You see?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, hold­ing his wand a lit­tle high­er. Har­ry saw a fis­sure in the cliff in­to which dark wa­ter was swirling. “You will not ob­ject to get­ting a lit­tle wet?”

“No,” said Har­ry.

“Then take off your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak — there is no need for it now — and let us take the plunge,” And with the sud­den ag­ili­ty of a much younger man, Dum­ble­dore slid from the boul­der, land­ed in the sea, and be­gan to swim, with a per­fect breast­stroke, to­ward the dark slit in the rock face, his lit wand held in his teeth. Har­ry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it in­to his pock­et, and fol­lowed. The wa­ter was icy; Har­ry’s wa­ter­logged clothes bil­lowed around him and weighed him down. Tak­ing deep breaths that filled his nos­trils with the tang of salt and sea­weed, he struck out for the shim­mer­ing, shrink­ing light now mov­ing deep­er in­to the cliff. The fis­sure soon opened in­to a dark tun­nel that Har­ry could tell would be filled with wa­ter at high tide. The slimy walls were bare­ly three feet apart and glim­mered like wet tar in the pass­ing light of Dum­ble­dore’s wand. A lit­tle way in, the pas­sage­way curved to the left, and Har­ry saw that it ex­tend­ed far in­to the cliff. He con­tin­ued to swim in Dum­ble­dore’s wake, the tips of his be­numbed fin­gers brush­ing the rough, wet rock.

Then he saw Dum­ble­dore ris­ing out of the wa­ter ahead, his sil­ver hair and dark robes gleam­ing. When Har­ry reached the spot he found steps that led in­to a large cave. He clam­bered up them, wa­ter stream­ing from his soak­ing clothes, and emerged, shiv­er­ing un­con­trol­lably, in­to the still and freez­ing air.

Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the cave, his wand held high as he turned slow­ly on the spot, ex­am­in­ing the walls and ceil­ing.

“Yes, this is the place,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“How can you tell?” Har­ry spoke in a whis­per.

“It has known mag­ic,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply. Har­ry could not tell whether the shiv­ers he was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing were due to his spinedeep cold­ness or to the same aware­ness of

en­chant­ments. He watched as Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued to re­volve on the spot, ev­ident­ly con­cen­trat­ing on things Har­ry could not see. “This is mere­ly the an­techam­ber, the en­trance hall,” said Dum­ble­dore af­ter a mo­ment or two. “We need to pen­etrate the in­ner place. . . . Now it is Lord Volde­mort’s ob­sta­cles that stand in our way, rather than those na­ture made. . . .”

Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the wall of the cave and ca­ressed it with his black­ened fin­ger­tips, mur­mur­ing words in a strange tongue that Har­ry did not un­der­stand. Twice Dum­ble­dore walked right around the cave, touch­ing as much of the rough rock as he could, oc­ca­sion­al­ly paus­ing, run­ning his fin­gers back­ward and for­ward over a par­tic­ular spot, un­til fi­nal­ly he stopped, his hand pressed flat against the wall. “Here,” he said. “We go on through here. The en­trance is con­cealed.” Har­ry did not ask how Dum­ble­dore knew. He had nev­er seen a wiz­ard work things out like this, sim­ply by look­ing and touch­ing; but Har­ry had long since learned that bangs and smoke were more of­ten the marks of in­ep­ti­tude than ex­per­tise. Dum­ble­dore stepped back from the cave wall and point­ed his wand at the rock. For a mo­ment, an arched out­line ap­peared there, blaz­ing white as though there was a pow­er­ful light be­hind the crack.

“You’ve ddone it!” said Har­ry through chat­ter­ing teeth, but be­fore the words had left his lips the out­line had gone, leav­ing the rock as bare and sol­id as ev­er. Dum­ble­dore looked around.

“Har­ry, I’m so sor­ry, I for­got,” he said; he now point­ed his wand at Har­ry and at once, Har­ry’s clothes were as warm and dry as if they had been hang­ing in front of a blaz­ing fire.

“Thank you,” said Har­ry grate­ful­ly, but Dum­ble­dore had al­ready turned his at­ten­tion back to the sol­id cave wall. He did not try any more mag­ic, but sim­ply stood there star­ing at it in­tent­ly, as though some­thing ex­treme­ly in­ter­est­ing was writ­ten on it. Har­ry stayed quite still; he did not want to break Dum­ble­dores con­cen­tra­tion. Then, af­ter two sol­id min­utes, Dum­ble­dore said qui­et­ly, “Oh, sure­ly not. So crude.”

“What is it, Pro­fes­sor?”

“I rather think,” said Dum­ble­dore, putting his un­in­ju­red hand in­side his robes and draw­ing out a short sil­ver knife of the kind Har­ry used to chop po­tion in­gre­di­ents, “that we are re­quired to make pay­ment to pass.”

“Pay­ment?” said Har­ry. “You’ve got to give the door some­thing?”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Blood, if I am not much mis­tak­en.”

“Blood?”

“I said it was crude,” said Dum­ble­dore, who sound­ed dis­dain­ful, even dis­ap­point­ed, as though Volde­mort had fall­en short of high­er stan­dards Dum­ble­dore ex­pect­ed. “The idea, as I am sure you will have gath­ered, is that your en­emy must weak­en him- or her­self to en­ter. Once again, Lord Volde­mort fails to grasp that there are much more ter­ri­ble things than phys­ical in­ju­ry.”

“Yeah, but still, if you can avoid it . . .” said Har­ry, who had ex­pe­ri­enced enough pain not to be keen for more.

“Some­times, how­ev­er, it is un­avoid­able,” said Dum­ble­dore, shak­ing back the sleeve of his robes and ex­pos­ing the fore­arm of his in­ju­red hand.

“Pro­fes­sor!” protest­ed Har­ry, hur­ry­ing for­ward as Dum­ble­dore raised his knife. “I’ll do it, I’m —” He did not know what he was go­ing to say — younger, fit­ter?

But Dum­ble­dore mere­ly smiled. There was a flash of sil­ver, and a spurt of scar­let; the rock face was pep­pered with dark, glis­ten­ing drops.

“You are very kind, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, now pass­ing the tip of his wand over the deep cut he had made in his own arm, so that it healed in­stant­ly, just as Snape had healed Mal­foy’s wound, “But your blood is worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to have done the trick, doesn’t it?” The blaz­ing sil­ver out­line of an arch had ap­peared in the wall once more, and this time it did not fade away: The blood­spat­tered rock with­in it sim­ply van­ished, leav­ing an open­ing in­to what seemed to­tal dark­ness. “Af­ter me, I think,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he walked through the arch­way with Har­ry on his heels, light­ing his own wand hasti­ly as he went.

An eerie sight met their eyes: They were stand­ing on the edge of a great black lake, so vast that Har­ry could not make out the dis­tant banks, in a cav­ern so high that the ceil­ing too was out of sight. A misty green­ish light shone far away in what looked like the mid­dle of the lake; it was re­flect­ed in the com­plete­ly still wa­ter be­low. The green­ish glow and the light from the two wands were the on­ly things that broke the oth­er­wise vel­vety black­ness, though their rays did not pen­etrate as far as Har­ry would have ex­pect­ed. The dark­ness was some­how denser than nor­mal dark­ness.

“Let us walk,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Be very care­ful not to step in­to the wa­ter. Stay close to me.” He set off around the edge of the lake, and Har­ry fol­lowed close be­hind him. Their foot­steps made echo­ing, slap­ping sounds on the nar­row rim of rock that sur­round­ed the wa­ter. On and on they walked, but the view did not vary: on one side of them, the rough cav­ern wall, on the oth­er, the bound­less ex­panse of smooth, glassy black­ness, in the very mid­dle of which was that mys­te­ri­ous green­ish glow. Har­ry found the place and the si­lence op­pres­sive, un­nerv­ing.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said fi­nal­ly. “Do you think the Hor­crux is here?”

“Oh yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Yes, I’m sure it is. The ques­tion is, how do we get to it?”

“We couldn’t… we couldn’t just try a Sum­mon­ing Charm?” Har­ry said, sure that it was a stupid sug­ges­tion. But he was much keen­er than he was pre­pared to ad­mit on get­ting out of this place as soon as pos­si­ble.

“Cer­tain­ly we could,” said Dum­ble­dore, stop­ping so sud­den­ly that Har­ry al­most walked in­to him. “Why don’t you do it?”

“Me? Oh . . . okay . . .” Har­ry had not ex­pect­ed this, but cleared his throat and said loud­ly, wand aloft, “Ac­cio Hor­crux!”

With a noise like an ex­plo­sion, some­thing very large and pale erupt­ed out of the dark wa­ter some twen­ty feet away; be­fore Har­ry could see what it was, it had van­ished again with a crash­ing splash that made great, deep rip­ples on the mir­rored sur­face. Har­ry leapt back­ward in shock and hit the wall; his heart was still thun­der­ing as he turned to Dum­ble­dore.

“What was that?”

“Some­thing, I think, that is ready to re­spond should we at­tempt to seize the Hor­crux.”

Har­ry looked back at the wa­ter. The sur­face of the lake was once more shin­ing black glass: The rip­ples had van­ished un­nat­ural­ly fast; Har­ry’s heart, how­ev­er, was still pound­ing.

“Did you think that would hap­pen, sir?”

“I thought some­thing would hap­pen if we made an ob­vi­ous at­tempt to get our hands on the Hor­crux. That was a very good idea, Har­ry; much the sim­plest way of find­ing out what we are fac­ing.”

“But we don’t know what the thing was,” said Har­ry, look­ing at the sin­is­ter­ly smooth wa­ter.

“What the things are, you mean,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I doubt very much that there is on­ly one of them. Shall we walk on?”

“Pro­fes­sor?”

“Yes, Har­ry?”

“Do you think we’re go­ing to have to go in­to the lake?”

“In­to it? On­ly if we are very un­for­tu­nate.”

“You don’t think the Hor­crux is at the bot­tom?”

“Oh no … I think the Hor­crux is in the mid­dle.” And Dum­ble­dore point­ed to­ward the misty green light in the cen­ter of the lake.

“So we’re go­ing to have to cross the lake to get to it?”

“Yes, I think so.” Har­ry did not say any­thing. His thoughts were all of wa­ter mon­sters, of gi­ant ser­pents, of demons, kelpies, and sprites. . . .

“Aha,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he stopped again; this time, Har­ry re­al­ly did walk in­to him; for a mo­ment he top­pled on the edge of the dark wa­ter, and Dum­ble­dore’s un­in­ju­red hand closed tight­ly around his up­per arm, pulling him back. “So sor­ry, Har­ry, I should have giv­en warn­ing. Stand back against the wall, please; I think I have found the place.”

Har­ry had no idea what Dum­ble­dore meant; this patch of dark bank was ex­act­ly like ev­ery oth­er bit as far as he could tell, but Dum­ble­dore seemed to have de­tect­ed some­thing spe­cial about it. This time he was run­ning his hand, not over the rocky wall, but t hrough the thin air, as though ex­pect­ing to find and grip some­thing in­vis­ible.

“Oho,” said Dum­ble­dore hap­pi­ly, sec­onds lat­er. His hand had closed in midair up­on some­thing Har­ry could not see. Dum­ble­dore moved clos­er to the wa­ter; Har­ry watched ner­vous­ly as the tips of Dum­ble­dore’s buck­led shoes found the ut­most edge of the rock rim. Keep­ing his hand clenched in midair, Dum­ble­dore raised his wand with the oth­er and tapped his fist with the point.

Im­me­di­ate­ly a thick cop­pery green chain ap­peared out of thin air, ex­tend­ing from the depths of the wa­ter in­to Dum­ble­dore’s clenched hand. Dum­ble­dore tapped the chain, which be­gan to slide through his fist like a snake, coil­ing it­self on the ground with a clink­ing sound that echoed nois­ily off the rocky walls, pulling some­thing from the depths of the black wa­ter. Har­ry gasped as the ghost­ly prow of a tiny boat broke the sur­face, glow­ing as green as the chain, and float­ed, with bare­ly a rip­ple, to­ward the place on the bank where Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore stood.

“How did you know that was there?” Har­ry asked in as­ton­ish­ment.

“Mag­ic al­ways leaves traces,” said Dum­ble­dore, as the boat hit the bank with a gen­tle bump, “some­times very dis­tinc­tive traces. I taught Tom Rid­dle. I know his style.”

“Is … is this boat safe?”

“Oh yes, I think so. Volde­mort need­ed to cre­ate a means to cross the lake with­out at­tract­ing the wrath of those crea­tures he had placed with­in it in case he ev­er want­ed to vis­it or re­move his Hor­crux.”

“So the things in the wa­ter won’t do any­thing to us if we cross in Volde­mort’s boat?”

“I think we must re­sign our­selves to the fact that they will, at some point, re­al­ize we are not Lord Volde­mort. Thus far, how­ev­er, we have done well. They have al­lowed us to raise the boat.”

“But why have they let us?” asked Har­ry, who could not shake off the vi­sion of ten­ta­cles ris­ing out of the dark wa­ter the mo­ment they were out of sight of the bank.

“Volde­mort would have been rea­son­ably con­fi­dent that none but a very great wiz­ard would have been able to find the boat,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I think he would have been pre­pared to risk what was, to his mind, the most un­like­ly pos­si­bil­ity that some­body else would find it, know­ing that he had set oth­er ob­sta­cles ahead that on­ly he would be able to pen­etrate. We shall see whether he was right.”

Har­ry looked down in­to the boat. It re­al­ly was very small. “It doesn’t look like it was built for two peo­ple. Will it hold both of us? Will we be too heavy to­geth­er?”

Dum­ble­dore chuck­led. “Volde­mort will not have cared about the weight, but about the amount of mag­ical pow­er that crossed his lake. I rather think an en­chant­ment will have been placed up­on this boat so that on­ly one wiz­ard at a time will be able to sail in it.”

“But then — ?”

“I do not think you will count, Har­ry: You are un­der­age and un­qual­ified. Volde­mort would nev­er have ex­pect­ed a six­teenyearold to reach this place: I think it un­like­ly that your pow­ers will reg­is­ter com­pared to mine.” These words did noth­ing to raise Har­rys morale; per­haps Dum­ble­dore knew it, for he added, “Volde­mort’s mis­take, Har­ry, Volde­mort’s mis­take. . . Age is fool­ish and for­get­ful when it un­der­es­ti­mates youth. . . . Now, you first this time, and be care­ful not to touch the wa­ter.” Dum­ble­dore stood aside and Har­ry climbed care­ful­ly in­to the boat. Dum­ble­dore stepped in too, coil­ing the chain on­to the floor. They were crammed in to­geth­er; Har­ry could not com­fort­ably sit, but crouched, his knees jut­ting over the edge of the boat, which be­gan to move at once. There was no sound oth­er than the silken rus­tle of the boat’s prow cleav­ing the wa­ter; it moved with­out their help, as though an in­vis­ible rope was pulling it on­ward to­ward the light in the cen­ter. Soon they could no longer see the walls of the cav­ern; they might have been at sea ex­cept that there were no waves.

Har­ry looked down and saw the re­flect­ed gold of his wan­dlight sparkling and glit­ter­ing on the black wa­ter as they passed. The boat was carv­ing deep rip­ples up­on the glassy sur­face, grooves in the dark mir­ror. . . .

And then Har­ry saw it, mar­ble white, float­ing inch­es be­low the sur­face. “Pro­fes­sor!” he said, and his star­tled voice echoed loud­ly over the silent wa­ter.

“Har­ry?”

“I think I saw a hand in the wa­ter — a hu­man hand!”

“Yes, I am sure you did,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

Har­ry stared down in­to the wa­ter, look­ing for the van­ished hand, and a sick feel­ing rose in his throat.

“So that thing that jumped out of the wa­ter — ?” But Har­ry had his an­swer be­fore Dum­ble­dore could re­ply; the wan­dlight had slid over a fresh patch of wa­ter and showed him, this time, a dead man ly­ing face­up inch­es be­neath the sur­face, his open eyes mist­ed as though with cob­webs, his hair and his robes swirling around him like smoke. “There are bod­ies in here!” said Har­ry, and his voice sound­ed much high­er than usu­al and most un­like his own.

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore placid­ly, “but we do not need to wor­ry about them at the mo­ment.”

“At the mo­ment?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, tear­ing his gaze from the wa­ter to look at Dum­ble­dore.

“Not while they are mere­ly drift­ing peace­ful­ly be­low us,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is noth­ing to be feared from a body, Har­ry, any more than there is any­thing to be feared from the dark­ness. Lord Volde­mort, who of course se­cret­ly fears both, dis­agrees. But once again he re­veals his own lack of wis­dom. It is the un­known we fear when we look up­on death and dark­ness, noth­ing more.” Har­ry said noth­ing; he did not want to ar­gue, but he found the idea that there were bod­ies float­ing around them and be­neath them hor­ri­ble and, what was more, he did not be­lieve that they were not dan­ger­ous.

“But one of them jumped,” he said, try­ing to make his voice as lev­el and calm as Dum­ble­dore’s. “When I tried to Sum­mon the Hor­crux, a body leapt out of the lake.”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I am sure that once we take the Hor­crux, we shall find them less peace­able. How­ev­er, like many crea­tures that dwell in cold and dark­ness, they fear light and warmth, which we shall there­fore call to our aid should the need arise. Fire, Har­ry,” Dum­ble­dore added with a smile, in re­sponse to Har­ry’s be­wil­dered ex­pres­sion.

“Oh . . . right. . .” said Har­ry quick­ly. He turned his head to look at the green­ish glow to­ward which the boat was still in­ex­orably sail­ing. He could not pre­tend now that he was not scared. The great black lake, teem­ing with the dead … It seemed hours and hours ago that he had met Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, that he had giv­en Ron and Hermione Fe­lix Fe­li­cis. . . . He sud­den­ly wished he had said a bet­ter good­bye to them . . . and he hadn’t seen Gin­ny at all. . .

“Near­ly there,” said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly. Sure enough, the green­ish light seemed to be grow­ing larg­er at last, and with­in min­utes, the boat had come to a halt, bump­ing gen­tly in­to some­thing that Har­ry could not see at first, but when he raised his il­lu­mi­nat­ed wand he saw that they had reached a small is­land of smooth rock in the cen­ter of the lake. “Care­ful not to touch the wa­ter,” said Dum­ble­dore again as Har­ry climbed out of the boat.

The is­land was no larg­er than Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, an ex­panse of flat dark stone on which stood noth­ing but the source of that green­ish light, which looked much brighter when viewed close to. Har­ry squint­ed at it; at first, he thought it was a lamp of some kind, but then he saw that the light was com­ing from a stone basin rather like the Pen­sieve, which was set on top of a pedestal. Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the basin and Har­ry fol­lowed. Side by side, they looked down in­to it. The basin was full of an emer­ald liq­uid emit­ting that phos­pho­res­cent glow.

“What is it?” asked Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“I am not sure,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Some­thing more wor­ri­some than blood and bod­ies, how­ev­er.” Dum­ble­dore pushed back the sleeve of his robe over his black­ened hand, and stretched out the tips of his burned fin­gers to­ward the sur­face of the po­tion.

“Sir, no, don’t touch — !”

“I can­not touch,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing faint­ly. “See? I can­not ap­proach any near­er than this. You try.”

Star­ing, Har­ry put his hand in­to the basin and at­tempt­ed to touch the po­tion. He met an in­vis­ible bar­ri­er that pre­vent­ed him com­ing with­in an inch of it. No mat­ter how hard he pushed, his fin­gers en­coun­tered noth­ing but what seemed to be sol­id and flex­ible air.

“Out of the way, please, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. He raised his wand and made com­pli­cat­ed move­ments over the sur­face of the­po­tion, mur­mur­ing sound­less­ly. Noth­ing hap­pened, ex­cept per haps that the po­tion glowed a lit­tle brighter. Har­ry re­mained silent while Dum­ble­dore worked, but af­ter a while Dum­ble­dore with­drew his wand, and Har­ry felt it was safe to talk again.

“You think the Hor­crux is in there, sir?”

“Oh yes.” Dum­ble­dore peered more close­ly in­to the basin. Har­ry saw his face re­flect­ed, up­side down, in the smooth sur­face of the green po­tion. “But how to reach it? This po­tion can­not be pen­etrat­ed by hand, Van­ished, part­ed, scooped up, or si­phoned away, nor can it be Trans­fig­ured, Charmed, or oth­er­wise made to change its na­ture.” Al­most ab­sent­mind­ed­ly, Dum­ble­dore raised his wand again, twirled it once in midair, and then caught the crys­tal gob­let that he had con­ju­red out of nowhere. “I can on­ly con­clude that this po­tion is sup­posed to be drunk.”

“What?” said Har­ry. “No!”

“Yes, I think so: On­ly by drink­ing it can I emp­ty the basin and see what lies in its depths.”

“But what if— what if it kills you?”

“Oh, I doubt that it would work like that,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily. “Lord Volde­mort would not want to kill the per­son who reached this is­land.” Har­ry couldn’t be­lieve it. Was this more of Dum­ble­dore’s in­sane de­ter­mi­na­tion to see good in ev­ery­one?

“Sir,” said Har­ry, try­ing to keep his voice rea­son­able, “sir, this is Volde­mort we’re —”

“I’m sor­ry, Har­ry; I should have said, he would not want to im­me­di­ate­ly kill the per­son who reached this is­land,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed him­self. “He would want to keep them alive long enough to find out how they man­aged to pen­etrate so far through his de­fens­es and, most im­por­tant­ly of all, why they were so in­tent up­on emp­ty­ing the basin. Do not for­get that Lord Volde­mort be­lieves that he alone knows about his Hor­crux­es.”

Har­ry made to speak again, but this time Dum­ble­dore raised his hand for si­lence, frown­ing slight­ly at the emer­ald liq­uid, ev­ident­ly think­ing hard. “Un­doubt­ed­ly,” he said, fi­nal­ly, “this po­tion must act in a way that will pre­vent me tak­ing the Hor­crux. It might par­alyze me, cause me to for­get what I am here for, cre­ate so much pain I am dis­tract­ed, or ren­der me in­ca­pable in some oth­er way. This be­ing the case, Har­ry, it will be your job to make sure I keep drink­ing, even if you have to tip the po­tion in­to my protest­ing mouth. You un­der­stand?”

Their eyes met over the basin, each pale face lit with that strange, green light. Har­ry did not speak. Was this why he had been in­vit­ed along — so that he could force­feed Dum­ble­dore a po­tion that might cause him un­en­durable pain?

“You re­mem­ber,” said Dum­ble­dore, “the con­di­tion on which I brought you with me?”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, look­ing in­to the blue eyes that had turned green in the re­flect­ed light of the basin.

“But what if—?”

“You swore, did you not, to fol­low any com­mand I gave you?”

“Yes, but—”

“I warned you, did I not, that there might be dan­ger?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, “but —”

“Well, then,” said Dum­ble­dore, shak­ing back his sleeves once more and rais­ing the emp­ty gob­let, “you have my or­ders.”

“Why can’t I drink the po­tion in­stead?” asked Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

“Be­cause I am much old­er, much clev­er­er, and much less valu­able,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Once and for all, Har­ry, do I have your word that you will do all in your pow­er to make me keep drink­ing?”

“Couldn’t — ?”

“Do I have it?”

“But—”

“Your word, Har­ry.”

“I —all right, but—”

Be­fore Har­ry could make any fur­ther protest, Dum­ble­dore low­ered the crys­tal gob­let in­to the po­tion. For a split sec­ond, Har­ry hoped that he would not be able to touch the po­tion with the gob­let, but the crys­tal sank in­to the sur­face as noth­ing else had; when the glass was full to the brim, Dum­ble­dore lift­ed it to his mouth. “Your good health, Har­ry.”

And he drained the gob­let. Har­ry watched, ter­ri­fied, his hands grip­ping the rim of the basin so hard that his fin­ger­tips were numb.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said anx­ious­ly, as Dum­ble­dore low­ered the emp­ty glass. “How do you feel?”

Dum­ble­dore shook his head, his eyes closed. Har­ry won­dered whether he was in pain. Dum­ble­dore plunged the glass blind­ly back in­to the basin, re­filled it, and drank once more.

In si­lence, Dum­ble­dore drank three gob­lets­ful of the po­tion. Then, halfway through the fourth gob­let, he stag­gered and fell for­ward against the basin. His eyes were still closed, his breath­ing heavy.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore?” said Har­ry, his voice strained. “Can you hear me?”

Dum­ble­dore did not an­swer. His face was twitch­ing as though he was deeply asleep, but dream­ing a hor­ri­ble dream. His grip on the gob­let was slack­en­ing; the po­tion was about to spill from it. Har­ry reached for­ward and grasped the crys­tal cup, hold­ing it steady. “Pro­fes­sor, can you hear me?” he re­peat­ed loud­ly, his voice echo­ing around the cav­ern.

Dum­ble­dore pant­ed and then spoke in a voice Har­ry did not rec­og­nize, for he had nev­er heard Dum­ble­dore fright­ened like this.

“I don’t want. . . Don’t make me …”

Har­ry stared in­to the whitened face he knew so well, at the crooked nose and half­moon spec­ta­cles, and did not know what to do.

“. . . don’t like . . . want to stop . . .” moaned Dum­ble­dore.

“You . . . you can’t stop, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry. “You’ve got to keep drink­ing, re­mem­ber? You told me you had to keep drink­ing. Here . . .” Hat­ing him­self, re­pulsed by what he was do­ing, Har­ry forced the gob­let back to­ward Dum­ble­dore’s mouth and tipped it, so that Dum­ble­dore drank the re­main­der of the po­tion in­side.

“No …” he groaned, as Har­ry low­ered the gob­let back in­to the basin and re­filled it for him. “I don’t want to. … I don’t want to. . . . Let me go. . . .”

“Its all right, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, his hand shak­ing. “Its all right, I’m here —”

“Make it stop, make it stop,” moaned Dum­ble­dore.

“Yes.. . yes, this’ll make it stop,” lied Har­ry. He tipped the con­tents of the gob­let in­to Dum­ble­dore’s open mouth. Dum­ble­dore screamed; the noise echoed all around the vast cham­ber, across the dead black wa­ter.

“No, no, no, no, I can’t, I can’t, don’t make me, I don’t warn to. . . .”

“It’s all right, Pro­fes­sor, it’s all right!” said Har­ry loud­ly, his hands shak­ing so bad­ly he could hard­ly scoop up the sixth gob­lei ful of po­tion; the basin was now half emp­ty. “Noth­ing’s hap­pen­ing to you, you’re safe, it isn’t re­al, I swear it isn’t re­al — take this, now, take this…” And obe­di­ent­ly, Dum­ble­dore drank, as though it was an an­ti­dote Har­ry of­fered him, but up­on drain­ing the gob­let, he sank to his knees, shak­ing un­con­trol­lably.

“Its all my fault, all my fault,” he sobbed. “Please make it stop, I know I did wrong, oh please make it stop and I’ll nev­er, nev­er again …”

“This will make it stop, Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry said, his voice crack­ing as he tipped the sev­enth glass of po­tion in­to Dum­ble­dore’s mouth.

Dum­ble­dore be­gan to cow­er as though in­vis­ible tor­tur­ers sur­round­ed him; his flail­ing hand al­most knocked the re­filled gob­let from Har­ry’s trem­bling hands as he moaned, “Don’t hurt them, don’t hurt them, please, please, its my fault, hurt me in­stead …”

“Here, drink this, drink this, you’ll be all right,” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, and once again Dum­ble­dore obeyed him, open­ing his mouth even as he kept his eyes tight shut and shook from head to foot. And now he fell for­ward, scream­ing again, ham­mer­ing his fists up­on the ground, while Har­ry filled the ninth gob­let.

“Please, please, please, no … not that, not that, I’ll do any­thing …”

“Just drink, Pro­fes­sor, just drink . . .”

Dum­ble­dore drank like a child dy­ing of thirst, but when he had fin­ished, he yelled again as though his in­sides were on fire. “No more, please, no more …”

Har­ry scooped up a tenth gob­let­ful of po­tion and felt the crys­tal scrape the bot­tom of the basin. “We’re near­ly there, Pro­fes­sor. Drink this, drink it. …”

He sup­port­ed Dum­ble­dore’s shoul­ders and again, Dum­ble­dore drained the glass; then Har­ry was on his feet once more, re­fill­ing the gob­let as Dum­ble­dore be­gan to scream in more an­guish than ev­er, “I want to die! I want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want to die!”

“Drink this, Pro­fes­sor. Drink this. . . .”

Dum­ble­dore drank, and no soon­er had he fin­ished than he yelled, “KILL ME!”

“This — this one will!” gasped Har­ry. “Just drink this .. . It’ll be over … all over!” Dum­ble­dore gulped at the gob­let, drained ev­ery last drop, and then, with a great, rat­tling gasp, rolled over on­to his face.

“No!” shout­ed Har­ry, who had stood to re­fill the gob­let again; in­stead he dropped the cup in­to the basin, flung him­self down be­side Dum­ble­dore, and heaved him over on­to his back; Dum­ble­dore’s glass­es were askew, his mouth agape, his eyes closed. “No.” said Har­ry, shak­ing Dum­ble­dore, “no, you’re not dead, you said it wasn’t poi­son, wake up, wake up — Ren­ner­vate!” he cried, his wand point­ing at Dum­ble­dores chest; there was a flash of red light but noth­ing hap­pened. “Ren­ner­vate — sir — please —”

Dum­ble­dores eye­lids flick­ered; Har­ry’s heart leapt, “Sir, are you — ?”

“Wa­ter,” croaked Dum­ble­dore.

“Wa­ter,” pant­ed Har­ry. “Yes —” He leapt to his feet and seized the gob­let he had dropped in the basin; he bare­ly reg­is­tered the gold­en lock­et ly­ing curled be­neath it.

“Agua­men­ti!” he shout­ed, jab­bing the gob­let with his wand. The gob­let filled with clear wa­ter; Har­ry dropped to his knees be­side Dum­ble­dore, raised his head, and brought the glass to his lips — but it was emp­ty. Dum­ble­dore groaned and be­gan to pant. “But I had some — wait — Agua­men­ti!” said Har­ry again, point­ing his wand at the gob­let. Once more, for a sec­ond, clear wa­ter gleamed with­in it, but as he ap­proached Dum­ble­dores mouth, the wa­ter van­ished again. “Sir, I’m try­ing, I’m try­ing!” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, but he did not think that Dum­ble­dore could hear him; he had rolled on­to his side and was draw­ing great, rat­tling breaths that sound­ed ag­oniz­ing. “Agua­men­ti —Agua­men­ti —AGUA­MEN­TI!”

The gob­let filled and emp­tied once more. And now Dum­ble­dores breath­ing was fad­ing. His brain whirling in pan­ic, Har­ry knew, in­stinc­tive­ly, the on­ly way left to get wa­ter, be­cause Volde­mort had planned it so … He flung him­self over to the edge of the rock and plunged the gob­let in­to the lake, bring­ing it up full to the brim of icy wa­ter that did not van­ish. “Sir — here!” Har­ry yelled, and lung­ing for­ward, he tipped the wa­ter clum­si­ly over Dum­ble­dores face.

It was the best he could do, for the icy feel­ing on his arm not hold­ing the cup was not the lin­ger­ing chill of the wa­ter. A slimy white hand had gripped his wrist, and the crea­ture to whom it be­longed was pulling him, slow­ly, back­ward across the rock. The sur­face of the lake was no longer mir­rorsmooth; it was churn­ing, and ev­ery­where Har­ry looked, white heads and hands were emerg­ing from the dark wa­ter, men and wom­en and chil­dren with sunken, sight­less eyes were mov­ing to­ward the rock: an army of the dead ris­ing from the black wa­ter.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!” yelled Har­ry, strug­gling to cling to the smooth, soaked sur­face of the is­land as he point­ed his wand at the In­ferius that had his arm. It re­leased him, falling back­ward in­to the wa­ter with a splash; he scram­bled to his feet, but many more In­feri were al­ready climb­ing on­to the rock, their bony hands claw­ing at its slip­pery sur­face, their blank, frost­ed eyes up­on him, trail­ing wa­ter­logged rags, sunken faces leer­ing.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!” Har­ry bel­lowed again, back­ing away as he swiped his wand through the air; six or sev­en of them crum­pled, but more were com­ing to­ward him. “Im­ped­imen­ta! In­car­cer­ous!” A few of them stum­bled, one or two of them bound in ropes, but those climb­ing on­to the rock be­hind them mere­ly stepped over or on the fall­en bod­ies. Still slash­ing at the air with his wand, Har­ry yelled, “Sec­tum­sem­pra! SEC­TUM­SEM­PRA!” But though gash­es ap­peared in their sod­den rags and their icy skin, they had no blood to spill: They walked on, un­feel­ing, their shrunk­en hands out­stretched to­ward him, and as he backed away still far­ther, he felt arms en­close him from be­hind, thin, fleshlcv. arms cold as death, and his feet left the ground as they lift­ed him and be­gan to car­ry him, slow­ly and sure­ly, back to the wa­ter, anil he knew there would be no re­lease, that he would be drowned, and be­come one more dead guardian of a frag­ment of Volde­mor­ts shat­tered soul…

But then, through the dark­ness, fire erupt­ed: crim­son and gold, a ring of fire that sur­round­ed the rock so that the In­feri hold­ing Har­ry so tight­ly stum­bled and fal­tered; they did not dare pass through the flames to get to the wa­ter. They dropped Har­ry; he hit the ground, slipped on the rock, and fell, graz­ing his arms, then scram­bled back up, rais­ing his wand and star­ing around.

Dum­ble­dore was on his feet again, pale as any of the sur­round­ing In­feri, but taller than any too, the fire danc­ing in his eyes; his wand was raised like a torch and from its tip em­anat­ed the flames, like a vast las­so, en­cir­cling them all with warmth. The In­feri bumped in­to each oth­er, at­tempt­ing, blind­ly, to es­cape the fire in which they were en­closed. . . .

Dum­ble­dore scooped the lock­et from the bot­tom of the stone basin and stowed it in­side his robes. Word­less­ly, he ges­tured to Har­ry to come to his side. Dis­tract­ed by the flames, the In­feri seemed un­aware that their quar­ry was leav­ing as Dum­ble­dore led Har­ry back to the boat, the ring of fire mov­ing with them, around them, the be­wil­dered In­feri ac­com­pa­ny­ing them to the wa­ters edge, where they slipped grate­ful­ly back in­to their dark wa­ters.

Har­ry, who was shak­ing all over, thought for a mo­ment that Dum­ble­dore might not be able to climb in­to the boat; he stag­gered a lit­tle as he at­tempt­ed it; all his ef­forts seemed to be go­ing in­to main­tain­ing the ring of pro­tec­tive flame around them. Har­ry seized him and helped him back to his seat. Once they were both safe­ly jammed in­side again, the boat be­gan to move back across the black wa­ter, away from the rock, still en­cir­cled by that ring of fire, and it seemed that the In­feri swarm­ing be­low them did not dare resur­face.

“Sir,” pant­ed Har­ry, “sir, I for­got — about fire — they were com­ing at me and I pan­icked —”

“Quite un­der­stand­able,” mur­mured Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry was alarmed to hear how faint his voice was.

They reached the bank with a lit­tle bump and Har­ry leapt out, then turned quick­ly to help Dum­ble­dore. The mo­ment that Dum­ble­dore reached the bank he let his wand hand fall; the ring of fire van­ished, but the In­feri did not emerge again from the wa­ter. The lit­tle boat sank in­to the wa­ter once more; clank­ing and tin­kling, its chain slith­ered back in­to the lake too. Dum­ble­dore gave a great sigh and leaned against the cav­ern wall.

“I am weak…” he said.

“Don’t wor­ry, sir,” said Har­ry at once, anx­ious about Dum­ble­dore’s ex­treme pal­lor and by his air of ex­haus­tion. “Don’t wor­ry, I’ll get us back. . . . Lean on me, sir. . . .”

And pulling Dum­ble­dore’s un­in­ju­red arm around his shoul­ders, Har­ry guid­ed his head­mas­ter back around the lake, bear­ing most of his weight.

“The pro­tec­tion was . . . af­ter all… wellde­signed,” said Dum­ble­dore faint­ly. “One alone could not have done it. … You did well, very well, Har­ry. …”

“Don’t talk now,” said Har­ry, fear­ing how slurred Dum­ble­dore’s voice had be­come, how much his feet dragged. “Save your en­er­gy, sir. . . . We’ll soon be out of here. . . .”

“The arch­way will have sealed again. . . . My knife …” ‘

“There’s no need, I got cut on the rock,” said Har­ry firm­ly. “Just tell me where. . . .”

“Here . . .”

Har­ry wiped his grazed fore­arm up­on the stone: Hav­ing re­ceived its trib­ute of blood, the arch­way re­opened in­stant­ly. They crossed the out­er cave, and Har­ry helped Dum­ble­dore back in­to the icy sea­wa­ter that filled the crevice in the cliff.

“It’s go­ing to be all right, sir,” Har­ry said over and over again, more wor­ried by Dum­ble­dore’s si­lence than he had been by his weak­ened voice. “We’re near­ly there. … I can Ap­pa­rate us both back . . . Don’t wor­ry. . . .”

“I am not wor­ried, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice a lit­tle stronger de­spite the freez­ing wa­ter. “I am with you.”





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 27: The Lightning-Struck Tower


Once back un­der the star­ry sky, Har­ry heaved Dum­ble­dore on to the top of the near­est boul­der and then to his feet. Sod­den and shiv­er­ing, Dum­ble­dore’s weight still up­on him, Har­ry con­ cen­trat­ed hard­er than he had ev­er done up­on his des­ti­na­tion: Hogsmeade. Clos­ing his eyes, grip­ping Dum­ble­dore’s arm as tight­ly as he could, he stepped for­wards in­to that feel­ing of hor­ri­ble com­pres­sion.

He knew it had worked be­fore he opened his eyes: the smell of salt, the sea breeze had gone. He and Dum­ble­dore were shiv­er­ing and drip­ping in the mid­dle of the dark High Street in Hogsmeade. For one hor­ri­ble mo­ment Har­ry’s imag­ina­tion showed him more In­feri creep­ing to­wards him around the sides of shops, but he blinked and saw that noth­ing was stir­ring; all was still, the dark­ness com­plete but for a few street­lamps and lit up­per win­dows.

‘We did it, Pro­fes­sor!’ Har­ry whis­pered with dif­fi­cul­ty; he sud­den­ly re­alised that he had a sear­ing stitch in his chest. ‘We did it! We got the Hor­crux!’

Dum­ble­dore stag­gered against him. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought that his in­ex­pert Ap­pari­tion had thrown Dum­ble­dore off­bal­an­ce; then he saw his face, paler and damper than ev­er in the dis­tant light of a street­lamp.

‘Sir, are you all right?’

‘I’ve been bet­ter,’ said Dum­ble­dore weak­ly, though the cor­ners of his mouth twitched. That po­tion … was no health drink …”

And to Har­ry’s hor­ror, Dum­ble­dore sank on to the ground.

‘Sir - it’s OK, sir, you’re go­ing to be all right, don’t wor­ry -’

He looked around des­per­ate­ly for help, but there was no­body to be seen and all he could think was that he must some­how get Dum­ble­dore quick­ly to the hos­pi­tal wing.

‘We need to get you up to the school, sir … Madam Pom­frey …’

‘No,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘It is … Pro­fes­sor Snape whom I need … but I do not think … I can walk very far just yet …’

‘Right - sir, lis­ten - I’m go­ing to knock on a door, find a place you can stay - then I can run and get Madam -’

‘Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore clear­ly. ‘I need Severus …’

‘All right then, Snape - but I’m go­ing to have to leave you for a mo­ment so I can -’

Be­fore Har­ry could make a move, how­ev­er, he heard run­ ning foot­steps. His heart leapt: some­body had seen, some­body knew they need­ed help - and look­ing around he saw Madam Ros­mer­ta scur­ry­ing down the dark street to­wards them on high­heeled, fluffy slip­pers, wear­ing a silk dress­ing­gown em­broi­dered with drag­ons.

‘I saw you Ap­pa­rate as I was pulling my bed­room cur­tains! Thank good­ness, thank good­ness, I couldn’t think what to - but what’s wrong with Al­bus?’

She came to a halt, pant­ing, and stared down, wideeyed, at Dum­ble­dore.

‘He’s hurt,’ said Har­ry. ‘Madam Ros­mer­ta, can he come in­to the Three Broom­sticks while I go up to the school and get help for him?’

‘You can’t go up there alone! Don’t you re­alise - haven’t you seen -?’

‘If you help me sup­port him,’ said Har­ry, not lis­ten­ing to her, ‘I think we can get him in­side -’

‘What has hap­pened?’ asked Dum­ble­dore. ‘Ros­mer­ta, what’s wrong?’

The - the Dark Mark, Al­bus.’

And she point­ed in­to the sky, in the di­rec­tion of Hog­warts. Dread flood­ed Har­ry at the sound of the words … he turned and looked.

There it was, hang­ing in the sky above the school: the blaz- ing green skull with a ser­pent tongue, the mark Death Eaters left be­hind when­ev­er they had en­tered a build­ing … wher­ev­er they had mur­dered …

‘When did it ap­pear?’ asked Dum­ble­dore, and his hand clenched painful­ly up­on Har­ry’s shoul­der as he strug­gled to his feet.

‘Must have been min­utes ago, it wasn’t there when I put the cat out, but when I got up­stairs -’

‘We need to re­turn to the cas­tle at once,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Ros­mer­ta,’ and though he stag­gered a lit­tle, he seemed whol­ly in com­mand of the sit­ua­tion, ‘we need trans­port - brooms -’

‘I’ve got a cou­ple be­hind the bar,’ she said, look­ing very fright­ened. ‘Shall I run and fetch -?’

‘No, Har­ry can do it.’

Har­ry raised his wand at once.

‘Ac­cio Ros­mer­ta’s brooms.’

A sec­ond lat­er they heard a loud bang as the front door of the pub burst open; two brooms had shot out in­to the street and were rac­ing each oth­er to Har­ry’s side, where they stopped dead, quiv­er­ing slight­ly, at waist height.

‘Ros­mer­ta, please send a mes­sage to the Min­istry,’ said Dum­ble­dore, as he mount­ed the broom near­est him. ‘It might be that no­body with­in Hog­warts has yet re­alised any­thing is wrong … Har­ry, put on your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.’

Har­ry pulled his Cloak out of his pock­et and threw it over him­self be­fore mount­ing his broom; Madam Ros­mer­ta was al­ready tot­ter­ing back to­wards her pub as Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore kicked off from the ground and rose up in­to the air. As they sped to­wards the cas­tle, Har­ry glanced side­ways at Dum­ble­dore, ready to grab him should he fall, but the sight of the Dark Mark seemed to have act­ed up­on Dum­ble­dore like a stim­ulant: he was bent low over his broom, his eyes fixed up­on the Mark, his long sil­ver hair and beard fly­ing be­hind him in the night air. And Har­ry, too, looked ahead at the skull, and fear swelled in­side him like a ven­omous bub­ble, com­press­ing his lungs, driv­ing all oth­er dis­com­fort from his mind …

How long had they been away? Had Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny’s luck run out by now? Was it one of them who had caused the Mark to be set over the school, or was it Neville, or Lu­na, or some oth­er mem­ber of the DA? And if it was … he was the one who had told them to pa­trol the cor­ri­dors, he had asked them to leave the safe­ty of their beds … would he be re­spon­si­ble, again, for the death of a friend?

As they flew over the dark, twist­ing lane down which they had walked ear­li­er, Har­ry heard, over the whistling of the night air in his ears, Dum­ble­dore mut­ter­ing in some strange lan­guage again. He thought he un­der­stood why as he felt his broom shud­der for a mo­ment when they flew over the bound­ary wall in­to the grounds: Dum­ble­dore was un­do­ing the en­chant­ments he him­self had set around the cas­tle, so that they could en­ter at speed. The Dark Mark was glit­ter­ing di­rect­ly above the As­tron­omy Tow­er, the high­est of the cas­tle. Did that mean the death had oc­curred there?

Dum­ble­dore had al­ready crossed the crenel­lat­ed ram­parts and was dis­mount­ing; Har­ry land­ed next to him sec­onds lat­er and looked around.

The ram­parts were de­sert­ed. The door to the spi­ral stair­case that led back in­to the cas­tle was closed. There was no sign of a strug­gle, of a fight to the death, of a body.

‘What does it mean?’ Har­ry asked Dum­ble­dore, look­ing up at the green skull with its ser­pent’s tongue glint­ing evil­ly above them. ‘Is it the re­al Mark? Has some­one def­inite­ly been - Pro­fes­sor?’

In the dim green glow from the Mark Har­ry saw Dum­ble­dore clutch­ing at his chest with his black­ened hand.

‘Go and wake Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore faint­ly but clear­ly. Tell him what has hap­pened and bring him to me. Do noth­ ing else, speak to no­body else and do not re­move your Cloak. I shall wait here.’

‘But -’

‘You swore to obey me, Har­ry - go!’

Har­ry hur­ried over to the door lead­ing to the spi­ral stair­case, but his hand had on­ly just closed up­on the iron ring of the door when he heard run­ning foot­steps on the oth­er side. He looked round at Dum­ble­dore, who ges­tured to him to re­treat. Har­ry backed away, draw­ing his wand as he did so.

The door burst open and some­body erupt­ed through it and shout­ed: ‘Ex­pel­liar­mus!’

Har­ry’s body be­came in­stant­ly rigid and im­mo­bile, and he felt him­self fall back against the Tow­er wall, propped like an un­steady stat­ue, un­able to move or speak. He could not un­der­stand how it had hap­pened - Ex­pel­liar­mus was not a Freez­ing Charm -

Then, by the light of the Mark, he saw Dum­ble­dore’s wand fly­ing in an arc over the edge of the ram­parts and un­der­stood … Dum­ble­dore had word­less­ly im­mo­bilised Har­ry, and the sec­ond he had tak­en to per­form the spell had cost him the chance of de­fend­ing him­self.

Stand­ing against the ram­parts, very white in the face, Dum­ble­dore still showed no sign of pan­ic or dis­tress. He mere­ly looked across at his dis­armer and said, ‘Good evening, Dra­co.’

Mal­foy stepped for­wards, glanc­ing around quick­ly to check that he and Dum­ble­dore were alone. His eyes fell up­on the sec­ond broom.

‘Who else is here?’

‘A ques­tion 1 might ask you. Or are you act­ing alone?’

Har­ry saw Mal­foy’s pale eyes shift back to Dum­ble­dore in the green­ish glare of the Mark.

‘No,’ he said. ‘I’ve got back­up. There are Death Eaters here in your school tonight.’

‘Well, well,’ said Dum­ble­dore, as though Mal­foy was show­ ing him an am­bi­tious home­work project. ‘Very good in­deed. You found a way to let them in, did you?’

‘Yeah,’ said Mal­foy, who was pant­ing. ‘Right un­der your nose and you nev­er re­alised!’

‘In­ge­nious,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Yet … for­give me … where are they now? You seem un­sup­port­ed.’

They met some of your guard. They’re hav­ing a fight down be­low. They won’t be long … I came on ahead. I - I’ve got a job to do.’

‘Well, then, you must get on and do it, my dear boy,’ said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly.

There was si­lence. Har­ry stood im­pris­oned with­in his own in­vis­ible, par­al­ysed body, star­ing at the two of them, his ears strain­ing to hear sounds of the Death Eaters’ dis­tant fight, and in front of him, Dra­co Mal­foy did noth­ing but stare at Al­bus Dum­ble­dore who, in­cred­ibly, smiled.

‘Dra­co, Dra­co, you are not a killer.’

‘How do you know?’ said Mal­foy at once.

He seemed to re­alise how child­ish the words had sound­ed; Har­ry saw him flush in the Mark’s green­ish light.

‘You don’t know what I’m ca­pa­ble of,’ said Mal­foy more force­ful­ly, ‘you don’t know what I’ve done!’

‘Oh, yes, I do,’ said Dum­ble­dore mild­ly. ‘You al­most killed Katie Bell and Ronald Weasley. You have been try­ing, with in­creas­ing des­per­ation, to kill me all year. For­give me, Dra­co, but they have been fee­ble at­tempts … so fee­ble, to be hon­est, that I won­der whether your heart has been re­al­ly in it…’

‘It has been in it!’ said Mal­foy ve­he­ment­ly. ‘I’ve been work­ ing on it all year, and tonight -’

Some­where in the depths of the cas­tle be­low Har­ry heard a muf­fled yell. Mal­foy stiff­ened and glanced over his shoul­der.

‘Some­body is putting up a good fight,’ said Dum­ble­dore con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly. ‘But you were say­ing … yes, you have man­aged to in­tro­duce Death Eaters in­to my school which, I ad­mit, I thought im­pos­si­ble … how did you do it?’

But Mal­foy said noth­ing: he was still lis­ten­ing to what­ev­er was hap­pen­ing be­low and seemed al­most as par­al­ysed as Har­ry was.

‘Per­haps you ought to get on with the job alone,’ sug­gest­ed Dum­ble­dore. ‘What if your back­up has been thwart­ed by my guard? As you have per­haps re­alised, there are mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix here tonight, too. And af­ter all, you don’t re­al­ly need help … I have no wand at the mo­ment … I can­not de­fend my­self.’

Mal­foy mere­ly stared at him.

‘I see,’ said Dum­ble­dore kind­ly, when Mal­foy nei­ther

moved nor spoke. ‘You are afraid to act un­til they join

you.’»

‘I’m not afraid!’ snarled Mal­foy, though he still made no move to hurt Dum­ble­dore. ‘It’s you who should be scared!’

‘But why? I don’t think you will kill me, Dra­co. Killing is not near­ly as easy as the in­no­cent be­lieve … so tell me, while we wait for your friends … how did you smug­gle them in here? It seems to have tak­en you a long time to work out how to do it.’

Mal­foy looked as though he was fight­ing down the urge to shout, or to vom­it. He gulped and took sev­er­al deep breaths, glar­ing at Dum­ble­dore, his wand point­ing di­rect­ly at the lat­ter’s heart. Then, as though he could not help him­self, he said, ‘1 had to mend that bro­ken Van­ish­ing Cab­in­et that no one’s used for years. The one Mon­tague got lost in last year.’

‘Aaaah.’

Dum­ble­dore’s sigh was half a groan. He closed his eyes for a mo­ment.

That was clever … there is a pair, I take it?’

‘The oth­er’s in Bor­gin and Burkes,’ said Mal­foy, ‘and they make a kind of pas­sage be­tween them. Mon­tague told me that when he was stuck in the Hog­warts one, he was trapped in lim­bo but some­times he could hear what was go­ing on at school, and some­times what was go­ing on in the shop, as if the Cab­in­et was trav­el­ling be­tween them, but he couldn’t make any­one hear him … in the end he man­aged to Ap­pa­rate out, even though he’d nev­er passed his test. He near­ly died do­ing it. Ev­ery­one thought it was a re­al­ly good sto­ry, but I was the on­ly one who re­alised what it meant - even Bor­gin didn’t know - 1 was the one who re­alised there could be a way in­to Hog­warts through the Cab­in­ets if I fixed the bro­ken one.’

‘Very good,’ mur­mured Dum­ble­dore. ‘So the Death Eaters were able to pass from Bor­gin and Burkes in­to the school to help you … a clever plan, a very clever plan … and, as you say, right un­der my nose …’

‘Yeah,’ said Mal­foy who, bizarrely, seemed to draw courage and com­fort from Dum­ble­dore’s praise. ‘Yeah, it was!’

‘But there were times,’ Dum­ble­dore went on, ‘weren’t there, when you were not sure you would suc­ceed in mend­ing the Cab­in­et? And you re­sort­ed to crude and bad­ly judged meas­ures such as send­ing me a cursed neck­lace that was bound to reach the wrong hands … poi­son­ing mead there was on­ly the slight­est chance I might drink …’

‘Yeah, well, you still didn’t re­alise who was be­hind that stuff, did you?’ sneered Mal­foy, as Dum­ble­dore slid a lit­tle down the ram­parts, the strength in his legs ap­par­ent­ly fad­ing, and Har­ry strug­gled fruit­less­ly, mute­ly, against the en­chant­ment bind­ing him.

‘As a mat­ter of fact, I did,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘I was sure it was you.’

‘Why didn’t you stop me, then?’ Mal­foy de­mand­ed.

‘I tried, Dra­co. Pro­fes­sor Snape has been keep­ing watch over you on my or­ders -’

‘He hasn’t been do­ing your or­ders, he promised my moth­er -’

‘Of course that is what he would tell you, Dra­co, but -’

‘He’s a dou­bleagent, you stupid old man, he isn’t work­ing for you, you just think he is!’

‘We must agree to dif­fer on that, Dra­co. It so hap­pens that I trust Pro­fes­sor Snape -’

‘Well, you’re los­ing your grip, then!’ sneered Mal­foy. ‘He’s been of­fer­ing me plen­ty of help - want­ing all the glo­ry for him­self - want­ing a bit of the ac­tion - “What are you do­ing? Did you do the neck­lace, that was stupid, it could have blown ev­ery­thing -” But I haven’t told him what I’ve been do­ing in the Room of Re­quire­ment, he’s go­ing to wake up to­mor­row and it’ll all be over and he won’t be the Dark Lord’s favourite any more, he’ll be noth­ing com­pared to me, noth­ing!’

‘Very grat­ify­ing,’ said Dum­ble­dore mild­ly. ‘We all like* ap­pre­ci­ation for our own hard work, of course … but you must have had an ac­com­plice, all the same … some­one in Hogsmeade, some­one who was able to slip Katie the - the - aaaah

Dum­ble­dore closed his eyes again and nod­ded, as though he was about to fall asleep.

‘… of course … Ros­mer­ta. How long has she been un­der the Im­perius Curse?’

‘Got there at last, have you?’ Mal­foy taunt­ed.

There was an­oth­er yell from be­low, rather loud­er than the last. Mal­foy looked ner­vous­ly over his shoul­der again, then back at Dum­ble­dore, who went on, ‘So poor Ros­mer­ta was forced to lurk in her own bath­room and pass that neck­lace to any Hog­warts stu­dent who en­tered the room un­ac­com­pa­nied? And the poi­soned mead … well, nat­ural­ly, Ros­mer­ta was able to poi­son it for you be­fore she sent the bot­tle to Slughorn, be­liev­ing that it was to be my Christ­mas present … yes, very neat … very neat … poor Mr Filch would not, of course, think to check a bot­tle of Ros­mer­ta’s … tell me, how have you been com­mu­ni­cat­ing with Ros­mer­ta? I thought we had all meth­ods of com­mu­ni­ca­tion in and out of the school mon­itored.’

‘En­chant­ed coins,’ said Mal­foy, as though he was com­pelled to keep talk­ing, though his wand hand was shak­ing bad­ly. ‘I had one and she had the oth­er and 1 could send her mes­sages -’

‘Isn’t that the se­cret method of com­mu­ni­ca­tion the group that called them­selves Dum­ble­dore’s Army used last year?’ asked Dum­ble­dore. His voice was light and con­ver­sa­tion­al, but Har­ry saw him slip an inch low­er down the wall as he said it.

‘Yeah, I got the idea from them,’ said Mal­foy, with a twist­ed smile. ‘I got the idea of poi­son­ing the mead from the Mud­blood Granger, as well, I heard her talk­ing in the li­brary about Filch not recog­nis­ing po­tions …’

Hogsmeade, some­one who was able to slip Katie the - the - aaaah

Dum­ble­dore closed his eyes again and nod­ded, as though he was about to fall asleep.

‘… of course … Ros­mer­ta. How long has she been un­der the Im­perius Curse?’

‘Got there at last, have you?’ Mal­foy taunt­ed.

There was an­oth­er yell from be­low, rather loud­er than the last. Mal­foy looked ner­vous­ly over his shoul­der again, then back at Dum­ble­dore, who went on, ‘So poor Ros­mer­ta was forced to lurk in her own bath­room and pass that neck­lace to any Hog­warts stu­dent who en­tered the room un­ac­com­pa­nied? And the poi­soned mead … well, nat­ural­ly, Ros­mer­ta was able to poi­son it for you be­fore she sent the bot­tle to Slughorn, be­liev­ing that it was to be my Christ­mas present … yes, very neat … very neat … poor Mr Filch would not, of course, think to check a bot­tle of Ros­mer­ta’s … tell me, how have you been com­mu­ni­cat­ing with Ros­mer­ta? I thought we had all meth­ods of com­mu­ni­ca­tion in and out of the school mon­itored.’

‘En­chant­ed coins,’ said Mal­foy, as though he was com­pelled to keep talk­ing, though his wand hand was shak­ing bad­ly. ‘I had one and she had the oth­er and 1 could send her mes­sages -’

‘Isn’t that the se­cret method of com­mu­ni­ca­tion the group that called them­selves Dum­ble­dore’s Army used last year?’ asked Dum­ble­dore. His voice was light and con­ver­sa­tion­al, but Har­ry saw him slip an inch low­er down the wall as he said it.

‘Yeah, I got the idea from them,’ said Mal­foy, with a twist­ed smile. ‘I got the idea of poi­son­ing the mead from the Mud­blood Granger, as well, I heard her talk­ing in the li­brary about Filch not recog­nis­ing po­tions …’

‘Please do not use that of­fen­sive word in front of me,’ said Dum­ble­dore.

Mal­foy gave a harsh laugh.

‘You care about me say­ing “Mud­blood” when I’m about to kill you?’

‘Yes, I do,’ said Dum­ble­dore, and Har­ry saw his feet slide a lit­tle on the floor as he strug­gled to re­main up­right. ‘But as for be­ing about to kill me, Dra­co, you have had sev­er­al long min­utes now. We are quite alone. I am more de­fence­less than you can have dreamed of find­ing me, and still you have not act­ed …’

Mal­foy’s mouth con­tort­ed in­vol­un­tar­ily, as though he had tast­ed some­thing very bit­ter.

‘Now, about tonight,’ Dum­ble­dore went on, ‘I am a lit­tle puz­zled about how it hap­pened … you knew that I had left the school? But of course,’ he an­swered his own ques­tion, ‘Ros­mer­ta saw me leav­ing, she tipped you off us­ing your in­ge­nious coins, I’m sure …’

‘That’s right,’ said Mal­foy. ‘But she said you were just go­ing for a drink, you’d be back …’

‘Well, I cer­tain­ly did have a drink … and I came back … af­ter a fash­ion,’ mum­bled Dum­ble­dore. ‘So you de­cid­ed to spring a trap for me?’

‘We de­cid­ed to put the Dark Mark over the Tow­er and get you to hur­ry up here, to see who’d been killed,’ said Mal­foy. ‘And it worked!’

‘Well … yes and no …’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘But am I to take it, then, that no­body has been mur­dered?’

‘Some­one’s dead,’ said Mal­foy and his voice seemed to go up an oc­tave as he said it. ‘One of your peo­ple … I don’t know who, it was dark … I stepped over the body … I was* sup­posed to be wait­ing up here when you got back, on­ly your Phoenix lot got in the way …’

‘Yes, they do that,’ said Dum­ble­dore.

There was a bang and shouts from be­low, loud­er than ev­er; it sound­ed as though peo­ple were fight­ing on the ac­tu­al spi­ral stair­case that led to where Dum­ble­dore, Mal­foy and Har­ry stood, and Har­ry’s heart thun­dered un­heard in his in­vis­ible chest … some­one was dead … Mal­foy had stepped over the body … but who was it?

There is lit­tle time, one way or an­oth­er,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘So let us dis­cuss your op­tions, Dra­co.’

‘My op­tions!’ said Mal­foy loud­ly. ‘I’m stand­ing here with a wand - I’m about to kill you -’

‘My dear boy, let us have no more pre­tence about that. If you were go­ing to kill me, you would have done it when you first Dis­armed me, you would not have stopped for this pleas­ant chat about ways and means.’

‘I haven’t got any op­tions!’ said Mal­foy, and he was sud­ den­ly as white as Dum­ble­dore. ‘I’ve got to do it! He’ll kill me! He’ll kill my whole fam­ily!’

‘I ap­pre­ci­ate the dif­fi­cul­ty of your po­si­tion,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Why else do you think I have not con­front­ed you be­fore now? Be­cause I knew that you would have been mur­dered if Lord Volde­mort re­alised that I sus­pect­ed you.’

Mal­foy winced at the sound of the name.

‘I did not dare speak to you of the mis­sion with which I knew you had been en­trust­ed, in case he used Legili­men­cy against you,’ con­tin­ued Dum­ble­dore. ‘But now at last we can speak plain­ly to each oth­er … no harm has been done, you have hurt no­body, though you are very lucky that your un­in­ten­tion­al vic­tims sur­vived … I can help you, Dra­co.’

‘No, you can’t,’ said Mal­foy, his wand hand shak­ing very bad­ly in­deed. ‘No­body can. He told me to do it or he’ll kill me. I’ve got no choice.’

‘Come over to the right side, Dra­co, and we can hide you more com­plete­ly than you can pos­si­bly imag­ine. What is more, I can send mem­bers of the Or­der to your moth­er tonight to hide her like­wise. Your fa­ther is safe at the mo­ment in Azk­aban … when the time comes we can pro­tect him too … come over to the right side, Dra­co … you are not a killer …’

Mal­foy stared at Dum­ble­dore.

‘But I got this far, didn’t I?’ he said slow­ly. They thought I’d die in the at­tempt, but I’m here … and you’re in my pow­er … I’m the one with the wand … you’re at my mer­cy …’

‘No, Dra­co,’ said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. ‘It is my mer­cy, and not yours, that mat­ters now.’

Mal­foy did not speak. His mouth was open, his wand hand still trem­bling. Har­ry thought he saw it drop by a frac­tion -

But sud­den­ly foot­steps were thun­der­ing up the stairs and a sec­ond lat­er Mal­foy was buf­fet­ed out of the way as four peo­ple in black robes burst through the door on to the ram­parts. Still par­al­ysed, his eyes star­ing un­blink­ing­ly, Har­ry gazed in ter­ror up­on four strangers: it seemed the Death Eaters had won the fight be­low.

A lumpy­look­ing man with an odd lop­sid­ed leer gave a wheezy gig­gle.

‘Dum­ble­dore cor­nered!’ he said, and he turned to a stocky lit­tle wom­an who looked as though she could be his sis­ter and who was grin­ning ea­ger­ly. ‘Dum­ble­dore wand­less, Dum­ble­dore alone! Well done, Dra­co, well done!’

‘Good evening, Amy­cus,’ said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, as though wel­com­ing the man to a tea par­ty. ‘And you’ve brought Alec­to too … charm­ing …’

The wom­an gave an an­gry lit­tle tit­ter.

Think your lit­tle jokes’ll help you on your death bed, then?’ she jeered.

‘Jokes? No, no, these are man­ners,’ replied Dum­ble­dore.

‘Do it,’ said the stranger stand­ing near­est to Har­ry, a big, rangy man with mat­ted grey hair and whiskers, whose black Death Eater’s robes looked un­com­fort­ably tight. He had a voice like none that Har­ry had ev­er heard: a rasp­ing bark of a voice. Har­ry could smell a pow­er­ful mix­ture of dirt, sweat and, un­mis­take­ably, of blood com­ing from him. His filthy hands had long yel­low­ish nails.

‘Is that you, Fen­rir?’ asked Dum­ble­dore.

That’s right,’ rasped the oth­er. ‘Pleased to see me, Dum­ble­dore?’

‘No, I can­not say that I am …’

Fen­rir Grey­back grinned, show­ing point­ed teeth. Blood trick­led down his chin and he licked his lips slow­ly, ob­scene­ly.

‘But you know how much I like kids, Dum­ble­dore.’

‘Am I to take it that you are at­tack­ing even with­out the full moon now? This is most un­usu­al … you have de­vel­oped a taste for hu­man flesh that can­not be sat­is­fied once a month?’

That’s right,’ said Grey­back. ‘Shocks you, that, does it, Dum­ble­dore? Fright­ens you?’

‘Well, I can­not pre­tend it does not dis­gust me a lit­tle,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘And, yes, I am a lit­tle shocked that Dra­co here in­vit­ed you, of all peo­ple, in­to the school where his friends live…’

‘I didn’t,’ breathed Mal­foy. He was not look­ing at Grey­back; he did not seem to want to even glance at him. ‘I didn’t know he was go­ing to come -’

‘I wouldn’t want to miss a trip to Hog­warts, Dum­ble­dore,’ rasped Grey­back. ‘Not when there are throats to be ripped out … de­li­cious, de­li­cious …’

And he raised a yel­low fin­ger­nail and picked at his front teeth, leer­ing at Dum­ble­dore.

‘1 could do you for af­ters, Dum­ble­dore …’

‘No,’ said the fourth Death Eater sharply. He had a heavy, bru­tal­look­ing face. ‘We’ve got or­ders. Dra­co’s got to do it. Now, Dra­co, and quick­ly.’

Mal­foy was show­ing less res­olu­tion than ev­er. He looked ter­ri­fied as he stared in­to Dum­ble­dore’s face, which was even paler, and rather low­er than usu­al, as he had slid so far down the ram­part wall.

‘He’s not long for this world any­way, if you ask me!’ said the lop­sid­ed man, to the ac­com­pa­ni­ment of his sis­ter’s wheez­ing gig­gles. ‘Look at him - what’s hap­pened to you, then, Dum­by?’

‘Oh, weak­er re­sis­tance, slow­er re­flex­es, Amy­cus,’ said Dum­ble­dore. ‘Old age, in short … one day, per­haps, it will hap­pen to you … if you are lucky …’

‘What’s that mean, then, what’s that mean?’ yelled the Death Eater, sud­den­ly vi­olent. ‘Al­ways the same, weren’t yeh, Dum­by, talk­ing and do­ing noth­ing, noth­ing, I don’t even know why the Dark Lord’s both­er­ing to kill yeh! Come on, Dra­co, do it!’

But at that mo­ment, there were re­newed sounds of scuf­fling from be­low and a voice shout­ed, ‘They’ve blocked the stairs - Re­duc­to! RE­DUC­TO!’

Har­ry’s heart leapt: so these four had not elim­inat­ed all op­po­si­tion, but mere­ly bro­ken through the fight to the top of the Tow­er, and, by the sound of it, cre­at­ed a bar­ri­er be­hind them -

‘Now, Dra­co, quick­ly!’ said the bru­tal­faced man an­gri­ly.

But Mal­foy’s hand was shak­ing so bad­ly that he could bare­ly aim.

Til do it,’ snarled Grey­back, mov­ing to­wards Dum­ble­dore with his hands out­stretched, his teeth bared.

‘I said no!’ shout­ed the bru­tal­faced man; there was a flash of light and the were­wolf was blast­ed out of the way; he hit the ram­parts and stag­gered, look­ing fu­ri­ous. Har­ry’s heart was ham­mer­ing so hard it seemed im­pos­si­ble that no­body could hear him stand­ing there, im­pris­oned by Dum­ble­dore’s spell -if he could on­ly move, he could aim a curse from un­der the Cloak -

‘Dra­co, do it, or stand aside so one of us -’ screeched the wom­an, but at that pre­cise mo­ment the door to the ram­parts burst open once more and there stood Snape, his wand clutched in his hand as his black eyes swept the scene, from Dum­ble­dore slumped against the wall, to the four Death Eaters, in­clud­ing the en­raged were­wolf, and Mal­foy.

‘We’ve got a prob­lem, Snape,’ said the lumpy Amy­cus, whose eyes and wand were fixed alike up­on Dum­ble­dore, ‘the boy doesn’t seem able -’

But some­body else had spo­ken Snape’s name, quite soft­ly.

‘Severus …’

The sound fright­ened Har­ry be­yond any­thing he had ex­pe­ri­enced all evening. For the first time, Dum­ble­dore was plead­ing.

Snape said noth­ing, but walked for­wards and pushed Mal­foy rough­ly out of the way. The three Death Eaters fell back with­out a word. Even the were­wolf seemed cowed.

Snape gazed for a mo­ment at Dum­ble­dore, and there was re­vul­sion and ha­tred etched in the harsh lines of his face.

‘Severus … please …”

Snape raised his wand and point­ed it di­rect­ly at Dum­ble­dore.

‘Ava­da Ke­davra!’

A jet of green light shot from the end of Snape’s wand and hit Dum­ble­dore square­ly in the chest. Har­ry’s scream of hor­ror nev­er left him; silent and un­mov­ing, he was forced to watch as Dum­ble­dore was blast­ed in­to the air: for a split sec­ond he seemed to hang sus­pend­ed be­neath the shin­ing skull, and then he fell slow­ly back­wards, like a great rag doll, over the bat­tle­ments and out of sight.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 28: Flight of the Prince


Har­ry felt as though he too were hurtling through space; it had not hap­pened. . . . It could not have hap­pened. …

“Out of here, quick­ly,” said Snape.

He seized Mal­foy by the scruff of the neck and forced him through the door ahead of the rest; Grey­back and the squat broth­er and sis­ter fol­lowed, the lat­ter both pant­ing ex­cit­ed­ly. As they van­ished through the door, Har­ry re­al­ized he could move again. What was now hold­ing him par­alyzed against the wall was not mag­ic, but hor­ror and shock. He threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak aside as the bru­tal­faced Death Eater, last to leave the tow­er top, was dis­ap­pear­ing through the door.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!”

The Death Eater buck­led as though hit in the back with some­thing sol­id and fell to the ground, rigid as a wax­work, but he had bare­ly hit the floor when Har­ry was clam­ber­ing over him and run­ning down the dark­ened stair­case.

Ter­ror tore at Har­ry;s heart. … He had to get to Dum­ble­dore and he had to catch Snape. … Some­how the two things were linked. … He could re­verse what had hap­pened if he had them both to­geth­er. … Dum­ble­dore could not have died. …

He leapt the last ten steps of the spi­ral stair­case and stopped where he land­ed, his wand raised. The dim­ly lit cor­ri­dor was full of dust; half the ceil­ing seemed to have fall­en in; and a bat­tle was rag­ing be­fore him, but even as he at­tempt­ed to make out who were fight­ing whom, he heard the hat­ed voice shout, “It’s over, time to go!” and saw Snape dis­ap­pear­ing around the cor­ner at the far end of the cor­ri­dor; he and Mal­foy seemed to have forced their way through the fight un­scathed. As Har­ry plunged af­ter them, one of the fight­ers de­tached them­selves from the fray and flew at him: it was the were­wolf, Fen­rir. He was on top of Har­ry be­fore Har­ry could raise his wand: Har­ry fell back­ward, with filthy mat­ted hair in his face, the stench of sweat and blood fill­ing his nose and mouth, hot greedy breath at his throat -

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!”

Har­ry felt Fen­rir col­lapse against him; with a stu­pen­dous ef­fort he pushed the were­wolf off and on­to the floor as a jet of green light came fly­ing to­ward him; he ducked and ran, head­first, in­to the fight. His feet met some­thing squashy and slip­pery on the floor and he stum­bled: There were two bod­ies ly­ing there, ly­ing face­down in a pool of blood, but there was no time to in­ves­ti­gate. Har­ry now saw red hair fly­ing like flames in front of him: Gin­ny was locked in com­bat with the lumpy Death Eater, Amy­cus, who was throw­ing hex af­ter hex at her while she dodged them: Amy­cus was gig­gling, en­joy­ing the sport: “Cru­cio - Cru­cio - you can’t dance for­ev­er, pret­ty-“

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” yelled Har­ry.

His jinx hit Amy­cus in the chest: He gave a piglike squeal of pain, was lift­ed off his feet and slammed in­to the op­po­site wall, slid down it, and fell out of sight be­hind Ron, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Lupin, each of whom was bat­tling a sep­arate Death Eater. Be­yond them, Har­ry saw Tonks fight­ing an enor­mous blond wiz­ard who was send­ing curs­es fly­ing in all di­rec­tions, so that they ric­ocheted off the walls around them, crack­ing stone, shat­ter­ing the near­est win­dow -

“Har­ry, where did you come from?” Gin­ny cried, but there was no time to an­swer her. He put his head down and sprint­ed for­ward, nar­row­ly avoid­ing a blast that erupt­ed over his head, show­er­ing them all in bits of wall. Snape must not es­cape, he must catch up with Snape -

“Take that!” shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Har­ry glimpsed the fe­male Death Eater, Alec­to, sprint­ing away down the cor­ri­dor with her arms over her head, her broth­er right be­hind her. He launched him­self af­ter them but his foot caught on some­thing, and next mo­ment he was ly­ing across some­one’s legs. Look­ing around, he saw Neville’s pale, round face flat against the floor. “Neville, are you - ?”

“M’all right,” mut­tered Neville, who was clutch­ing his stom­ach, “Har­ry . . . Snape ‘n’ Mal­foy . . . ran past. . .”

“I know, I’m on it!” said Har­ry, aim­ing a hex from the floor at the enor­mous blond Death Eater who was caus­ing most of the chaos. The man gave a howl of pain as the spell hit him in the face: He wheeled around, stag­gered, and then pound­ed away af­ter the broth­er and sis­ter. Har­ry scram­bled up from the floor and be­gan to sprint along the cor­ri­dor, ig­nor­ing the bangs is­su­ing from be­hind him, the yells of the oth­ers to come back, and the mute call of the fig­ures on the ground whose fate he did not yet know. . . .

He skid­ded around the cor­ner, his train­ers slip­pery with blood; Snape had an im­mense head start. Was it pos­si­ble that he had al­ready en­tered the cab­in­et in the Room of Re­quire­ment, or had the Or­der made steps to se­cure it, to pre­vent the Death Eaters re­treat­ing that way? He could hear noth­ing but his own pound­ing feet, his own ham­mer­ing heart as he sprint­ed along the next emp­ty cor­ri­dor, but then spot­ted a bloody foot­print that showed at least one of the flee­ing Death Eaters was head­ing to­ward the front doors - per­haps the Room of Re­quire­ment was in­deed blocked -

He skid­ded around an­oth­er cor­ner and a curse flew past him; he dived be­hind a suit of ar­mor that ex­plod­ed. He saw the broth­er and sis­ter run­ning down the mar­ble stair­case ahead and aimed jinx­es at them, but mere­ly hit sev­er­al be­wigged witch­es in a por­trait on the land­ing, who ran screech­ing in­to neigh­bor­ing paint­in­gs. As he leapt the wreck­age of ar­mor, Har­ry heard more shouts and screams; oth­er peo­ple with­in the cas­tle seemed to have awo­ken. . . .

He pelt­ed to­ward a short­cut, hop­ing to over­take the broth­er and sis­ter and close in on Snape and Mal­foy, who must sure­ly have reached the grounds by now. Re­mem­ber­ing to leap the van­ish­ing step halfway down the con­cealed stair­case, he burst through a tapestry at the bot­tom and out in­to a cor­ri­dor where a num­ber of be­wil­dered and pa­ja­maclad Huf­flepuffs stood.

“Har­ry! We heard a noise, and some­one said some­thing aboui the Dark Mark -” be­gan Ernie Macmil­lan.

“Out of the way!” yelled Har­ry, knock­ing two boys aside as he sprint­ed to­ward the land­ing and down the re­main­der of the mar­ble stair­case. The oak front doors had been blast­ed open, there were smears of blood on the flag­stones, and sev­er­al ter­ri­fied stu­dents stood hud­dled against the walls, one or two still cow­er­ing with their arms over their faces. The gi­ant Gryffind­or hour­glass had been hit by a curse, and the ru­bies with­in were still falling, with a loud rat­tle, on­to the flag­stones be­low.

Har­ry flew across the en­trance hall and out in­to the dark grounds: He could just make out three fig­ures rac­ing across the lawn, head­ing for the gates be­yond which they could Dis­ap­pa­rate - by the looks of them, the huge blond Death Eater and, some way ahead of him, Snape and Mal­foy. …

The cold night air ripped at Har­ry’s lungs as he tore af­ter them; he saw a flash of light in the dis­tance that mo­men­tar­ily sil­hou­et­ted his quar­ry. He did not know what it was but con­tin­ued to run, not yet near enough to get a good aim with a curse -

An­oth­er flash, shouts, re­tal­ia­to­ry jets of light, and Har­ry un­der­stood: Ha­grid had emerged from his cab­in and was try­ing to stop the Death Eaters es­cap­ing, and though ev­ery breath seemed to shred his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, Har­ry sped up as an un­bid­den voice in his head said: not Ha­grid. . . not Ha­grid too . . .

Some­thing caught Har­ry hard in the small of the back and he fell for­ward, his face smack­ing the ground, blood pour­ing out of both nos­trils: He knew, even as he rolled over, his wand ready, that the broth­er and sis­ter he had over­tak­en us­ing his short­cut were clos­ing in be­hind him. . . .

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” he yelled as he rolled over again, crouch­ing close to the dark ground, and mirac­ulous­ly his jinx hit one of them, who stum­bled and fell, trip­ping up the oth­er; Har­ry leapt to his feet and sprint­ed on af­ter Snape.

And now he saw the vast out­line of Ha­grid, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the light of the cres­cent moon re­vealed sud­den­ly be­hind clouds; the blond Death Eater was aim­ing curse af­ter curse at the game­keep­er; but Ha­grids im­mense strength and the tough­ened skin he had in­her­it­ed from his gi­ant­ess moth­er seemed to be pro­tect­ing him. Snape and Mal­foy, how­ev­er, were still run­ning; they would soon be be­yond the gates, able to Dis­ap­pa­rate -

Har­ry tore past Ha­grid and his op­po­nent, took aim at Snape’s back, and yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!”

He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snape’s head; Snape shout­ed, “Run, Dra­co!”and turned. Twen­ty yards apart, he and Har­ry looked at each oth­er be­fore rais­ing their wands si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly.

“Cruc - “

But Snape par­ried the curse, knock­ing Har­ry back­ward off his feet be­fore he could com­plete it; Har­ry rolled over and scram­bled back up again as the huge Death Eater be­hind him yelled, “In­cen­dio!” Har­ry heard an ex­plo­sive bang and a danc­ing or­ange light spilled over all of them: Ha­grid’s house was on fire.

“Fang’s in there, yer evil - !” Ha­grid bel­lowed.

“Cruc -” yelled Har­ry for the sec­ond time, aim­ing for the fig­ure ahead il­lu­mi­nat­ed in the danc­ing fire­light, but Snape blocked the spell again. Har­ry could see him sneer­ing.

“No Un­for­giv­able Curs­es from you, Pot­ter!” he shout­ed over the rush­ing of the flames, Ha­grid’s yells, and the wild yelp­ing of the trapped Fang. “You haven’t got the nerve or the abil­ity -“

“In­carc-“Har­ry roared, but Snape de­flect­ed the spell with an al­most lazy flick of his arm.

“Fight back!” Har­ry screamed at him. “Fight back, you cow­ard­ly—–“

“Cow­ard, did you call me, Pot­ter?” shout­ed Snape. “Your fa­ther would nev­er at­tack me un­less it was four on one, what would you call him, I won­der?” “Stupe-“

“Blocked again and again and again un­til you learn to keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Pot­ter!” sneered Snape, de­flect­ing the curse once more. “Now come!” he shout­ed at the huge Death Eater be­hind Har­ry. “It is time to be gone, be­fore the Min­istry turns up -“

“Im­pe­di -“

But be­fore he could fin­ish this jinx, ex­cru­ci­at­ing pain hit Har­ry; he keeled over in the grass. Some­one was scream­ing, he would sure­ly die of this agony, Snape was go­ing to tor­ture him to death or mad­ness -

“No!” roared Snape’s voice and the pain stopped as sud­den­ly as it had start­ed; Har­ry lay curled on the dark grass, clutch­ing his wand and pant­ing; some­where over­head Snape was shout­ing, “Have you for­got­ten our or­ders? Pot­ter be­longs to the Dark Lord - we are to leave him! Go! Go!”

And Har­ry felt the ground shud­der un­der his face as the broth­er and sis­ter and the enor­mous Death Eater obeyed, run­ning to­ward the gates. Har­ry ut­tered an inar­tic­ulate yell of rage: In that in­stant, he cared not whether he lived or died. Push­ing him­self to his feet again, he stag­gered blind­ly to­ward Snape, the man he now hat­ed as much as he hat­ed Volde­mort him­self -

“Sec­tum - “

Snape flicked his wand and the curse was re­pelled yet again; but Har­ry was mere feet away now and he could see Snape’s face clear­ly at last: He was no longer sneer­ing or jeer­ing; the blaz­ing flames showed a face full of rage. Mus­ter­ing all his pow­ers of con­cen­tra­tion, Har­ry thought, Levi -

“No, Pot­ter!” screamed Snape. There was a loud BANG and Har­ry was soar­ing back­ward, hit­ting the ground hard again, ;un\ this time his wand flew out of his hand. He could hear Ha­grid yelling and Fang howl­ing as Snape closed in and looked down on him where he lay, wand­less and de­fense­less as Dum­ble­dore hadl been. Snape’s pale face, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the flam­ing cab­in, was suf­fused with ha­tred just as it had been be­fore he had cursed Dum­ble­dore.

“You dare use my own spells against me, Pot­ter? It was I who in­vent­ed them - I, the Half­Blood Prince! And you’d turn my in­ven­tions on me, like your filthy fa­ther, would you? I don’t think so . . . no”

Har­ry had dived for his wand; Snape shot a hex at it and it flew feet away in­to the dark­ness and out of sight.

“Kill me then,” pant­ed Har­ry, who felt no fear at all, but on­ly rage and con­tempt. “Kill me like you killed him, you cow­ard -“

“DON’T -” screamed Snape, and his face was sud­den­ly de­ment­ed, in­hu­man, as though he was in as much pain as the yelp­ing, howl­ing dog stuck in the burn­ing house be­hind them - “CALL ME COW­ARD!”

And he slashed at the air: Har­ry felt a white­hot, whip­like some­thing hit him across the face and was slammed back­ward in­to the ground. Spots of light burst in front of his eyes and for a mo­ment all the breath seemed to have gone from his body, then he heard a rush of wings above him and some­thing enor­mous ob­scured the stars. Buck­beak had flown at Snape, who stag­gered back­ward as the ra­zor­sharp claws slashed at him. As Har­ry raised him­self in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion, his head still swim­ming from its last con­tact with the ground, he saw Snape run­ning as hard as he could, the enor­mous beast flap­ping be­hind him and screech­ing as Har­ry had nev­er heard him screech -

Har­ry strug­gled to his feet, look­ing around grog­gi­ly for his wand, hop­ing to give chase again, but even as his fin­gers fum­bled in the grass, dis­card­ing twigs, he knew it would be too late, and sure enough, by the time he had lo­cat­ed his wand, he turned on­ly to see the hip­pogriff cir­cling the gates. Snape had man­aged to Dis­ap­pa­rate just be­yond the school’s bound­aries.

“Ha­grid,” mut­tered Har­ry, still dazed, look­ing around. “HA­GRID?”

He stum­bled to­ward the burn­ing house as an enor­mous fig­ure emerged from out of the flames car­ry­ing Fang on his back. With a cry of thank­ful­ness, Har­ry sank to his knees; he was shak­ing in ev­ery limb, his body ached all over, and his breath came in painful stabs.

“Yeh all righ’, Har­ry? Yeh all righ’? Speak ter me, Har­ry. . ..”

Ha­grids huge, hairy face was swim­ming above Har­ry, block­ing out the stars. Har­ry could smell burnt wood and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s re­as­sur­ing­ly warm and alive body quiv­er­ing be­side him.

“I’m all right,” pant­ed Har­ry. “Are you?” “‘Course I am . . . take more’n that ter fin­ish me.”

Ha­grid put his hands un­der Har­ry’s arms and raised him up with such force that Har­ry’s feet mo­men­tar­ily left the ground be­fore Ha­grid set him up­right again. He could see blood trick­ling down Ha­grid’s cheek from a deep cut un­der one eye, which was swelling rapid­ly.

“We should put out your house,” said Har­ry, “the charm’s ‘Agua­men­ti’ …”

“Knew it was sum­mat like that,” mum­bled Ha­grid, and he raised a smol­der­ing pink, flow­ery um­brel­la and said, “Agua­men­ti!”

A jet of wa­ter flew out of the um­brel­la tip. Har­ry raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and mur­mured “Agua­men­ti” too: To­geth­er, he and Ha­grid poured wa­ter on the house un­til the last flame was ex­tin­guished.

“S’not too bad,” said Ha­grid hope­ful­ly a few min­utes lat­er, look­ing at the smok­ing wreck. “Noth­in Dum­ble­dore won’ be able to put righ’ . . .”

Har­ry felt a sear­ing pain in his stom­ach at the sound of the name. In the si­lence and the still­ness, hor­ror rose in­side him.

“Ha­grid …”

“I was bindin’ up a cou­ple o’ bowtruck­le legs when I heard ‘em com­ing,” said Ha­grid sad­ly, still star­ing at his wrecked cab­in. “They’ll bin burnt ter twigs, poor lit­tle things. . . .”

“Ha­grid . . .”

“But what hap­pened, Har­ry? I jus’ saw them Death Eaters run­nin down from the cas­tle, but what the rud­dy hell was Snape doin’ with ‘em? Where’s he gone - was he chasin’ them?”

“He . . .” Har­ry cleared his throat; it was dry from pan­ic and the smoke. “Ha­grid, he killed . . .”

“Killed?” said Ha­grid loud­ly, star­ing down at Har­ry. “Snape killed? What’re yeh on abou’, Har­ry?”

“Dum­ble­dore,” said Har­ry. “Snape killed .. . Dum­ble­dore.”

Ha­grid sim­ply looked at him, the lit­tle of his face that could be seen com­plete­ly blank, un­com­pre­hend­ing.

“Dum­ble­dore wha, Har­ry?”

“He’s dead. Snape killed him….”

“Don’ say that,” said Ha­grid rough­ly. “Snape kill Dum­ble­dore - don’ be stupid, Har­ry. Wha’s made yeh say tha’?”

“I saw it hap­pen.” , ,..

“Yeh couldn’ have.”

“I saw it, Ha­grid.”

Ha­grid shook his head; his ex­pres­sion was dis­be­liev­ing but sym­pa­thet­ic, and Har­ry knew that Ha­grid thought he had sus­tained a blow to the head, that he was con­fused, per­haps by the af­ter­ef­fects of a jinx. …

“What mus­ta hap­pened was, Dum­ble­dore mus­ta told Snape ter go with them Death Eaters,” Ha­grid said con­fi­dent­ly. “I sup­pose he’s got­ta keep his cov­er. Look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, Har­ry. …”

Har­ry did not at­tempt to ar­gue or ex­plain. He was still shak­ing un­con­trol­lably. Ha­grid would find out soon enough, too soon. … As they di­rect­ed their steps back to­ward the cas­tle, Har­ry saw that many of its win­dows were lit now. He could imag­ine, clear­ly, the scenes in­side as peo­ple moved from room to room, telling each oth­er that Death Eaters had got in, that the Mark was shin­ing over Hog­warts, that some­body must have been killed. . . .

The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light flood­ing out on­to the drive and the lawn. Slow­ly, un­cer­tain­ly, dress­ing­gowned peo­ple were creep­ing down the steps, look­ing around ner­vous­ly for some sign of the Death Eaters who had fled in­to the night. Har­ry’s eyes, how­ev­er, were fixed up­on the ground at the foot of the tallest tow­er. He imag­in­ed that he could see a black, hud­dled mass ly­ing in the grass there, though he was re­al­ly too far away to see any­thing of the sort. Even as he stared word­less­ly at the place where he thought

Dum­ble­dore’s body must lie, how­ev­er, he saw peo­ple be­gin­ning to move to­ward it.

“What’re they all lookin’ at?” said Ha­grid, as he and Har­ry ap­proached the cas­tle front, Fang keep­ing as close as he could to their an­kles. “Wha’s that lyin’ on the grass?” Ha­grid added sharply, head­ing now to­ward the foot of the As­tron­omy Tow­er, where a small crowd was con­gre­gat­ing. “See it, Har­ry? Right at the foot of the tow­er? Un­der where the Mark . . . Blimey . . . yeh don’ think some­one got thrown - ?”

Ha­grid fell silent, the thought ap­par­ent­ly too hor­ri­ble to ex­press aloud. Har­ry walked along­side him, feel­ing the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the var­ious hex­es of the last half hour had hit him, though in an odd­ly de­tached way, as though some­body near him was suf­fer­ing them. What was re­al and in­es­capable was the aw­ful press­ing feel­ing in his chest. . . .

He and Ha­grid moved, dream­like, through the mur­mur­ing crowd to the very front, where the dumb­struck stu­dents and teach­ers had left a gap.

Har­ry heard Ha­grid’s moan of pain and shock, but he did not stop; he walked slow­ly for­ward un­til he reached the place where Dum­ble­dore lay and crouched down be­side him. He had known there was no hope from the mo­ment that the full Body­Bind Curse Dum­ble­dore had placed up­on him lift­ed, known that it could have hap­pened on­ly be­cause its cast­er was dead, but there was still no prepa­ra­tion for see­ing him here, spread­ea­gled, bro­ken: the great­est wiz­ard Har­ry had ev­er, or would ev­er, meet.

Dum­ble­dore’s eyes were closed; but for the strange an­gle of his arms and legs, he might have been sleep­ing. Har­ry reached out, straight­ened the half­moon spec­ta­cles up­on the crooked nose, and wiped a trick­le of blood from the mouth with his own sleeve. Then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to ab­sorb the enor­mous and in­com­pre­hen­si­ble truth: that nev­er again would Dum­ble­dore speak to him, nev­er again could he help—–

The crowd mur­mured be­hind Har­ry. Af­ter what seemed like a long time, he be­came aware that he was kneel­ing up­on some­thing hard and looked down.

The lock­et they had man­aged to steal so many hours be­fore had fall­en out of Dum­ble­dore’s pock­et. It had opened, per­haps due to the force with which it hit the ground. And al­though he could not feel more shock or hor­ror or sad­ness than he felt al­ready, Har­ry knew, as he picked it up, that there was some­thing wrong—–

He turned the lock­et over in his hands. This was nei­ther as large as the lock­et he re­mem­bered see­ing in the Pen­sieve, nor were there any mark­in­gs up­on it, no sign of the or­nate S that was sup­posed to be Slytherins mark. More­over, there was noth­ing in­side but for a scrap of fold­ed parch­ment wedged tight­ly in­to the place where a por­trait should have been.

Au­to­mat­ical­ly, with­out re­al­ly think­ing about what he was do­ing, Har­ry pulled out the frag­ment of parch­ment, opened it, and read by the light of the many wands that had now been lit be­hind him:

To the Dark Lord

I now I will be dead long be­fore you read this but I want you to know that it was I who di­cov­ered your se­cret. I have stolen the re­al Hor­crux and in­tend to de­stroy it as soon as I can.

I face death in the hope that when you meet your match you will be mor­tal once more.

R.A.B.

Har­ry nei­ther knew nor cared what the mes­sage meant. On­ly one thing mat­tered: This was not a Hor­crux. Dum­ble­dore had weak­ened him­self by drink­ing that ter­ri­ble po­tion for noth­ing. Har­ry crum­pled the parch­ment in his hand, and his eyes burned with tears as be­hind him Fang be­gan to howl.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 29: The Pheonix Lament


C ‘mere, Har­ry …”

“No.”

“Yeh can’ stay here, Har­ry. … Come on, now….” “No.”

He did not want to leave Dum­ble­dores side, he did not want to move any­where. Ha­grid’s hand on his shoul­der was trem­bling. Then an­oth­er voice said, “Har­ry, come on.”

A much small­er and warmer hand had en­closed his and was pulling him up­ward. He obeyed its pres­sure with­out re­al­ly think­ing about it. On­ly as he walked blind­ly back through the crowd did he re­al­ize, from a trace of flow­ery scent on the air, that it was Gin­ny who was lead­ing him back in­to the cas­tle. In­com­pre­hen­si­ble voic­es bat­tered him, sobs and shouts and wails stabbed the night, but Har­ry and Gin­ny walked on, back up the steps in­to the en­trance hall. Faces swam on the edges of Har­ry’s vi­sion, peo­ple were peer­ing at him, whis­per­ing, won­der­ing, and Gryffind­or ru­bies glis­tened on the floor like drops of blood as they made their way to­ward the mar­ble stair­case.

“We’re go­ing to the hos­pi­tal wing,” said Gin­ny.

“I’m not hurt,” said Har­ry. !

“It’s McG­ona­galls or­ders,” said Gin­ny. “Ev­ery­one’s up there, Ron and Hermione and Lupin and ev­ery­one -“

Fear stirred in Har­ry’s chest again: He had for­got­ten the in­ert fig­ures he had left be­hind.

“Gin­ny, who else is dead?”

“Don’t wor­ry, none of us.”

“But the Dark Mark - Mal­foy said he stepped over a body -“

“He stepped over Bill, but its all right, he’s alive.”

There was some­thing in her voice, how­ev­er, that Har­ry knew bod­ed ill.

“Are you sure?”

“Of course I’m sure . . . he’s a - a bit of a mess, that’s all. Grey­back at­tacked him. Madam Pom­frey says he won’t - won’t look the same any­more. . . .”

Gin­ny’s voice trem­bled a lit­tle.

“We don’t re­al­ly know what the af­ter­ef­fects will be - I mean, Grey­back be­ing a were­wolf, but not trans­formed at the time.”

“But the oth­ers . . . There were oth­er bod­ies on the ground. . . .”

“Neville and Pro­fes­sor Flitwick are both hurt, but Madam Pom­frey says they’ll be all right. And a Death Eater’s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse that huge blond one was fir­ing off ev­ery­where - Har­ry, if we hadn’t had your Fe­lix po­tion, I think we’d all have been killed, but ev­ery­thing seemed to just miss us -“

They had reached the hos­pi­tal wing. Push­ing open the doors, Har­ry saw Neville ly­ing, ap­par­ent­ly asleep, in a bed near the door. Ron, Hermione, Lu­na, Tonks, and Lupin were gath­ered around an­oth­er bed near the far end of the ward. At the sound of the doors open­ing, they all looked up. Hermione ran to Har­ry and hugged him; Lupin moved for­ward too, look­ing anx­ious.

“Are you all right, Har­ry?”

“I’m fine…. How’s Bill?”

No­body an­swered. Har­ry looked over Hermione’s shoul­der and saw an un­rec­og­niz­able face ly­ing on Bill’s pil­low, so bad­ly slashed and ripped that he looked grotesque. Madam Pom­frey was dab­bing at his wounds with some harshsmelling green oint­ment. Har­ry re­mem­bered how Snape had mend­ed Mal­foy’s Sec­tum­sem­pra wounds so eas­ily with his wand.

“Can’t you fix them with a charm or some­thing?” he asked the ma­tron.

“No charm will work on these,” said Madam Pom­frey. “I’ve tried ev­ery­thing I know, but there is no cure for were­wolf bites.”

“But he wasn’t bit­ten at the full moon,” said Ron, who was gaz­ing down in­to his broth­er’s face as though he could some­how force him to mend just by star­ing. “Grey­back hadn’t trans­formed, so sure­ly Bill won’t be a - a re­al - ?” :

He looked un­cer­tain­ly at Lupin.

“No, I don’t think that Bill will be a true were­wolf,” said Lupin, “but that does not mean that there won’t be some con­tam­ina­tion. Those are cursed wounds. They are un­like­ly ev­er to heal ful­ly, and - and Bill might have some wolfish char­ac­ter­is­tics from now on.”

“Dum­ble­dore might know some­thing that’d work, though,” Ron said. “Where is he? Bill fought those ma­ni­acs on Dum­ble­dore’s or­ders, Dum­ble­dore owes him, he can’t leave him in this state -“

“Ron - Dum­ble­dores dead,” said Gin­ny.

“No!” Lupin looked wild­ly from Gin­ny to Har­ry, as though hop­ing the lat­ter might con­tra­dict her, but when Har­ry did nor, Lupin col­lapsed in­to a chair be­side Bill’s bed, his hands over his face. Har­ry had nev­er seen Lupin lose con­trol be­fore; he felt as though he was in­trud­ing up­on some­thing pri­vate, in­de­cent. He turned away and caught Ron’s eye in­stead, ex­chang­ing in si­lence a look that con­firmed what Gin­ny had said.

“How did he die?” whis­pered Tonks. “How did it hap­pen?”

“Snape killed him,” said Har­ry. “I was there, I saw it. We ar­rived back on the As­tron­omy Tow­er be­cause that’s where the Mark was. . . . Dum­ble­dore was ill, he was weak, but I think he re­al­ized it was a trap when we heard foot­steps run­ning up the stairs. He im­mo­bi­lized me, I couldn’t do any­thing, I was un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak - and then Mal­foy came through the door and dis­armed him -“

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth and Ron groaned. Lu­na’s mouth trem­bled.

“- more Death Eaters ar­rived - and then Snape - and Snape did it. The Ava­da Ke­davra.” Har­ry couldn’t go on.

Madam Pom­frey burst in­to tears. No­body paid her any at­ten­tion ex­cept Gin­ny, who whis­pered, “Shh! Lis­ten!”

Gulp­ing, Madam Pom­frey pressed her fin­gers to her mouth, her eyes wide. Some­where out in the dark­ness, a phoenix was singing in a way Har­ry had nev­er heard be­fore: a strick­en lament of ter­ri­ble beau­ty. And Har­ry felt, as he had felt about phoenix song be­fore, that the mu­sic was in­side him, not with­out: It was his own grief turned mag­ical­ly to song that echoed across the grounds and through the cas­tle win­dows.

How long they all stood there, lis­ten­ing, he did not know, nor why it seemed to ease their pain a lit­tle to lis­ten to the sound of their mourn­ing, but it felt like a long time lat­er that the hos­pi­tal door opened again and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall en­tered the ward. Like all the rest, she bore marks of the re­cent bat­tle: There were grazes on her face and her robes were ripped.

“Mol­ly and Arthur are on their way,” she said, and the spell of the mu­sic was bro­ken: Ev­ery­one roused them­selves as though com­ing out of trances, turn­ing again to look at Bill, or else to rub their own eye­st shake their heads. “Har­ry, what hap­pened? Ac­cord­ing to Ha­grid you were with Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore when he - when it hap­pened. He says Pro­fes­sor Snape was in­volved in some -” “Snape killed Dum­ble­dore,” said Har­ry.

She stared at him for a mo­ment, then swayed alarm­ing­ly; Madam Pom­frey, who seemed to have pulled her­self to­geth­er, ran for­ward, con­jur­ing a chair from thin air, which she pushed un­der McG­ona­gall.

“Snape,” re­peat­ed McG­ona­gall faint­ly, falling in­to the chair. “We all won­dered . . . but he trust­ed . . . al­ways . . . Snape… I can’t be­lieve it. …”

“Snape was a high­ly ac­com­plished Oc­clu­mens,” said Lupin, his voice un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly harsh. “We al­ways knew that.”

“But Dum­ble­dore swore he was on our side!” whis­pered Tonks. “I al­ways thought Dum­ble­dore must know some­thing about Snape that we didn’t. …” .

“He al­ways hint­ed that he had an iron­clad rea­son for trust­ing Snape,” mut­tered Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, now dab­bing at the cor­ners of her leak­ing eyes with a tar­tanedged hand­ker­chief. “I mean . . . with Snapes his­to­ry … of course peo­ple were bound to won­der. . . but Dum­ble­dore told me ex­plic­it­ly that Snape’s re­pen­tance was ab­so­lute­ly gen­uine—–Wouldn’t hear a word against him!”

“I’d love to know what Snape told him to con­vince him,” said Tonks.

“I know,” said Har­ry, and they all turned to look at him. “Snape passed Volde­mort the in­for­ma­tion that made Volde­mort hunt down my mum and dad. Then Snape told Dum­ble­dore he hadn’t re­al­ized what he was do­ing, he was re­al­ly sor­ry he’d done it, sor­ry that they were dead.”

They all stared at him.

“And Dum­ble­dore be­lieved that?” said Lupin in­cred­ulous­ly. “Dum­ble­dore be­lieved Snape was sor­ry James was dead? Snape hat­ed James. . . .”

“And he didn’t think my moth­er was worth a damn ei­ther,” said Har­ry, “be­cause she was Mug­gle­born… ‘Mud­blood,’ he called her. …”

No­body asked how Har­ry knew this. All of them seemed to be lost in hor­ri­fied shock, try­ing to di­gest the mon­strous truth of what had hap­pened.

“This is all my fault,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sud­den­ly. She looked dis­ori­ent­ed, twist­ing her wet hand­ker­chief in her hands. “My fault. I sent Fil­ius to fetch Snape tonight, I ac­tu­al­ly sent for him to come and help us! If I hadn’t alert­ed Snape to what was go­ing on, he might nev­er have joined forces with the Death Eaters. I don’t think he knew they were there be­fore Fil­ius told him, I don’t think he knew they were com­ing.”

“It isn’t your fault, Min­er­va,” said Lupin firm­ly. “We all want­ed more help, we were glad to think Snape was on his way….”

“So when he ar­rived at the fight, he joined in on the Death Eaters’ side?” asked Har­ry, who want­ed ev­ery de­tail of Snape’s du­plic­ity and in­famy, fever­ish­ly col­lect­ing more rea­sons to hate him, to swear vengeance.

“I don’t know ex­act­ly how it hap­pened,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dis­tract­ed­ly. “It’s all so con­fus­ing. . . . Dum­ble­dore had told us that he would be leav­ing the school for a few hours and that we were to pa­trol the cor­ri­dors just in case . . . Re­mus, Bill, and Nympha­do­ra were to join us … and so we pa­trolled. All seemed qui­et. Ev­ery se­cret pas­sage­way out of the school was cov­ered. We knew no­body could fly in. There were pow­er­ful en­chant­ments on ev­ery en­trance in­to the cas­tle. I still don’t know how the Death Eaters can pos­si­bly have en­tered. . . .”

“I do,” said Har­ry, and he ex­plained, briefly, about the pair of Van­ish­ing Cab­in­ets and the mag­ical path­way they formed. “So they got in through the Room of Re­quire­ment.”

Al­most against his will he glanced from Ron to Hermione, both of whom looked dev­as­tat­ed.

“I messed up, Har­ry,” said Ron bleak­ly. “We did like you told us: We checked the Ma­raud­er’s Map and we couldn’t see Mal­foy on it, so we thought he must be in the Room of Re­quire­ment, so me, Gin­ny, and Neville went to keep watch on it… but Mal­foy got past us.”

“He came out of the room about an hour af­ter we start­ed keep­ing watch,” said Gin­ny. “He was on his own, clutch­ing that aw­ful shriv­eled arm -“

“His Hand of Glo­ry,” said Ron. “Gives light on­ly to the hold­er, re­mem­ber?”

“Any­way,” Gin­ny went on, “he must have been check­ing whether the coast was clear to let the Death Eaters out, be­cause the mo­ment he saw us he threw some­thing in­to the air and it all went pitch­black -“

“- Pe­ru­vian In­stant Dark­ness Pow­der,” said Ron bit­ter­ly. “Fred and George’s. I’m go­ing to be hav­ing a word with them about who they let buy their prod­ucts.”

“We tried ev­ery­thing, Lu­mos, In­cen­dio,” said Gin­ny. “Noth­ing would pen­etrate the dark­ness; all we could do was grope our way out of the cor­ri­dor again, and mean­while we could hear peo­ple rush­ing past us. Ob­vi­ous­ly Mal­foy could see be­cause of that hand thing and was guid­ing them, but we didn’t dare use any curs­es or any­thing in case we hit each oth­er, and by the time we’d reached a cor­ri­dor that was light, they’d gone.”

“Luck­ily,” said Lupin hoarse­ly, “Ron, Gin­ny, and Neville ran in­to us al­most im­me­di­ate­ly and told us what had hap­pened. We found the Death Eaters min­utes lat­er, head­ing in the di­rec­tion of the As­tron­omy Tow­er. Mal­foy ob­vi­ous­ly hadn’t ex­pect­ed more peo­ple to be on the watch; he seemed to have ex­haust­ed his sup­ply of Dark­ness Pow­der, at any rate. A fight broke out, they scat­tered and we gave chase. One of them, Gib­bon, broke away and head­ed up the tow­er stairs -“

“To set off the Mark?” asked Har­ry.

“He must have done, yes, they must have ar­ranged that be­fore they left the Room of Re­quire­ment,” said Lupin. “But I don’t think Gib­bon liked the idea of wait­ing up there alone for Dum­ble­dore, be­cause he came run­ning back down­stairs to re­join the fight and was hit by a Killing Curse that just missed me.”

“So if Ron was watch­ing the Room of Re­quire­ment with Gin­ny and Neville,” said Har­ry, turn­ing to Hermione, “were you - ?”

“Out­side Snape’s of­fice, yes,” whis­pered Hermione, her eyes sparkling with tears, “with Lu­na. We hung around for ages out­side it and noth­ing hap­pened. . . . We didn’t know what was go­ing on up­stairs, Ron had tak­en the map—–It was near­ly mid­night when Pro­fes­sor Flitwick came sprint­ing down in­to the dun­geons. He was shout­ing about Death Eaters in the cas­tle, I don’t think he re­al­ly reg­is­tered that Lu­na and I were there at all, he just burst his way in­to Snape’s of­fice and we heard him say­ing that Snape had to go back with him and help and then we heard a loud thump and Snape came hurtling out of his room and he saw us and - and -” “What?” Har­ry urged her.

“I was so stupid, Har­ry!” said Hermione in a high­pitched whis­per. “He said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick had col­lapsed and that we should go and take care of him while he - while he went to help fight the Death Eaters -” She cov­ered her face in shame and con­tin­ued to talk in­to her fin­gers, so that her voice was muf­fled. “We went in­to his of­fice to see if we could help Pro­fes­sor Flitwick and found him un­con­scious on the floor. . . and oh, it’s so ob­vi­ous now, Snape must have Stu­pe­fied Flitwick, but we didn’t re­al­ize, Har­ry, we didn’t re­al­ize, we just let Snape go!”

“It’s not your fault,” said Lupin firm­ly. “Hermione, had you not obeyed Snape and got out of the way, he prob­ably would have killed you and Lu­na.”

“So then he came up­stairs,” said Har­ry, who was watch­ing Snape run­ning up the mar­ble stair­case in his mind’s eye, his black robes bil­low­ing be­hind him as ev­er, pulling his wand from un­der his cloak as he as­cend­ed, “and he found the place where you were all fight­ing. …”

“We were in trou­ble, we were los­ing,” said Tonks in a low voice. “Gib­bon was down, but the rest of the Death Eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. Neville had been hurt, Bill had been sav­aged by Grey­back… It was all dark . . . curs­es fly­ing ev­ery­where . . . The Mal­foy boy had van­ished, he must have slipped past, up the stairs . . . then more of them ran af­ter him, but one of them blocked the stair be­hind them with some kind of curse. . . . Neville ran at it and got thrown up in­to the air -“

“None of us could break through,” said Ron, “and that mas­sive Death Eater was still fir­ing off jinx­es all over the place, they were bounc­ing off the walls and bare­ly miss­ing us. . . .”

“And then Snape was there,” said Tonks, “and then he wasn’t -“

“I saw him run­ning to­ward us, but that huge Death Eaters jinx just missed me right af­ter­ward and I ducked and lost track of things,” said Gin­ny.

“I saw him run straight through the cursed bar­ri­er as though it wasn’t there,” said Lupin. “I tried to fol­low him, but was thrown back just like Neville. . . .”

“He must have known a spell we didn’t,” whis­pered McG­ona­gall. “Af­ter all - he was the De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er. … I just as­sumed that he was in a hur­ry to chase af­ter the Death Eaters who’d es­caped up to the tow­er. …”

“He was,” said Har­ry sav­age­ly, “but to help them, not to stop them . . . and I’ll bet you had to have a Dark Mark to get through that bar­ri­er - so what hap­pened when he came back down?”

“Well, the big Death Eater had just fired off a hex that caused half the ceil­ing to fall in, and al­so broke the curse block­ing the stairs,” said Lupin. “We all ran for­ward - those of us who were still stand­ing any­way - and then Snape and the boy emerged out of the dust - ob­vi­ous­ly, none of us at­tacked them -“

“We just let them pass,” said Tonks in a hol­low voice. “We thought they were be­ing chased by the Death Eaters - and next thing, the oth­er Death Eaters and Grey­back were back and we were fight­ing again - I thought I heard Snape shout some­thing, but I don’t know what -“

“He shout­ed, ‘It’s over,’” said Har­ry. “He’d done what he’d meant to do.”

They all fell silent. Fawkes’s lament was still echo­ing over the dark grounds out­side. As the mu­sic re­ver­ber­at­ed up­on the air, un­bid­den, un­wel­come thoughts slunk in­to Har­ry’s mind. . . . Had they tak­en Dum­ble­dore’s body from the foot of the tow­er yet? What would hap­pen to it next? Where would it rest? He clenched his fists tighdy in his pock­ets. He could feel the small cold lump of the fake Hor­crux against the knuck­les of his right hand.

The doors of the hos­pi­tal wing burst open, mak­ing them all jump: Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were strid­ing up the ward, Fleur just be­hind them, her beau­ti­ful face ter­ri­fied.

“Mol­ly - Arthur -” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, jump­ing up and hur­ry­ing to greet them. “I am so sor­ry -“

“Bill,” whis­pered Mrs. Weasley, dart­ing past Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall as she caught sight of Bill’s man­gled face. “Oh, Bill!”

Lupin and Tonks had got up hasti­ly and re­treat­ed so that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could get near­er to the bed. Mrs. Weasley bent over her son and pressed her lips to his bloody fore­head.

“You said Grey­back at­tacked him?” Mr. Weasley asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dis­tract­ed­ly. “But he hadn’t trans­formed? So what does that mean? What will hap­pen to Bill?”

“We don’t yet know,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing help­less­ly at Lupin.

“There will prob­ably be some con­tam­ina­tion, Arthur,” .said Lupin. “It is an odd case, pos­si­bly unique. . . . We don’t know what his be­hav­ior might be like when he awak­ens. . . .”

Mrs. Weasley took the nastys­melling oint­ment from Madam Pom­frey and be­gan dab­bing at Bill’s wounds.

“And Dum­ble­dore …” said Mr. Weasley. “Min­er­va, is it true … Is he re­al­ly. . . ?”

As Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall nod­ded, Har­ry felt Gin­ny move be­side him and looked at her. Her slight­ly nar­rowed eyes were fixed up­on Fleur, who was gaz­ing down at Bill with a frozen ex­pres­sion on her face.

“Dum­ble­dore gone,” whis­pered Mr. Weasley, but Mrs. Weasley had eyes on­ly for her el­dest son; she be­gan to sob, tears falling on­to Bill’s mu­ti­lat­ed face.

“Of course, it doesn’t mat­ter how he looks. . . . It’s not rre­al­ly im­por­tant. . . but he was a very hand­some lit­tle bboy . . . al­ways very hand­some . . . and he was ggo­ing to be mar­ried!”

“And what do you mean by zat?” said Fleur sud­den­ly and loud­ly. “What do you mean, ‘ he was go­ing to be mar­ried?’”

Mrs. Weasley raised her tearstained face, look­ing star­tled. “Well -on­ly that-“

“You theenk Bill will not wish to mar­ry me any­more?” de­mand­ed Fleur. “You theenk, be­cause of these bites, he will not love me?”

“No, that’s not what I -“

“Be­cause ‘e will!” said Fleur, draw­ing her­self up to her full height and throw­ing back her long mane of sil­ver hair. “It would take more zan a were­wolf to stop Bill lov­ing me!”

“Well, yes, I’m sure,” said Mrs. Weasley, “but I thought per­haps - giv­en how - how he -“

“You thought I would not weesh to mar­ry him? Or per’aps, you hoped?” said Fleur, her nos­trils flar­ing. “What do I care how he looks? I am good­look­ing enough for both of us, I theenk! All these scars show is zat my hus­band is brave! And I shall do zat!” she added fierce­ly, push­ing Mrs. Weasley aside and snatch­ing the oint­ment from her.

Mrs. Weasley fell back against her hus­band and watched Fleur mop­ping up Bill’s wounds with a most cu­ri­ous ex­pres­sion up­on her face. No­body said any­thing; Har­ry did not dare move. Like ev­ery­body else, he was wait­ing for the ex­plo­sion.

“Our GreatAun­tie Muriel,” said Mrs. Weasley af­ter a long pause, “has a very beau­ti­ful tiara - gob­lin­made - which I am sure I could per­suade her to lend you for the wed­ding. She is very fond of Bill, you know, and it would look love­ly with your hair.”

“Thank you,” said Fleur stiffly. “I am sure zat will be love­ly.”

And then, Har­ry did not quite see how it hap­pened, both , wom­en were cry­ing and hug­ging each oth­er. Com­plete­ly be­wil­dered, won­der­ing whether the world had gone mad, he turned around: Ron looked as stunned as he felt and Gin­ny and Hermione were ex­chang­ing star­tled looks.

“You see!” said a strained voice. Tonks was glar­ing at Lupin. “She still wants to mar­ry him, even though he’s been bit­ten! She doesn’t care!

“It’s dif­fer­ent,” said Lupin, bare­ly mov­ing his lips and look­ing sud­den­ly tense. “Bill will not be a full were­wolf. The cas­es are com­plete­ly -“

“But I don’t care ei­ther, I don’t care!” said Tonks, seiz­ing the front of Lupin’s robes and shak­ing them. “I’ve told you a mil­li­on times. . . .”

And the mean­ing of Tonks’s Pa­tronus and her mousec­ol­ored hair, and the rea­son she had come run­ning to find Dum­ble­dore when she had heard a ru­mor some­one had been at­tacked by Grey­back, all sud­den­ly be­came clear to Har­ry; it had not been Si­nus that Tonks had fall­en in love with af­ter all.

“And I’ve told you a mil­li­on times,” said Lupin, re­fus­ing to meet her eyes, star­ing at the floor, “that I am too old for you, too poor . . . too dan­ger­ous. . . .”

“I’ve said all along you’re tak­ing a ridicu­lous line on this, Re­mus,” said Mrs. Weasley over Fleur’s shoul­der as she pat­ted her on the back.

“I am not be­ing ridicu­lous,” said Lupin stea­di­ly. “Tonks de­serves some­body young and whole.”

“But she wants you,” said Mr. Weasley, with a small smile. “And af­ter all, Re­mus, young and whole men do not nec­es­sar­ily re­main so.”

He ges­tured sad­ly at his son, ly­ing be­tween them.

“This is… not the mo­ment to dis­cuss it,” said Lupin, avoid­ing ev­ery­body’s eyes as he looked around dis­tract­ed­ly. “Dum­ble­dore is dead. …”

“Dum­ble­dore would have been hap­pi­er than any­body to think that there was a lit­tle more love in the world,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall curt­ly, just as the hos­pi­tal doors opened again and Ha­grid walked in.

The lit­tle of his face that was not ob­scured by hair or beard was soak­ing and swollen; he was shak­ing with tears, a vast, spot­ted hand­ker­chief in his hand.

“I’ve . . . I’ve done it, Pro­fes­sor,” he choked. “Mmoved him. Pro­fes­sor Sprout’s got the kids back in bed. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick’s lyin down, but he says he’ll be all righ’ in a jiffy, an’ Pro­fes­sor Slughorn says the Min­istry’s bin in­formed.”

“Thank you, Ha­grid,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, stand­ing up at once and turn­ing to look at the group around Bill’s bed. “I shall have to see the Min­istry when they get here. Ha­grid, please tell the Heads of Hous­es - Slughorn can rep­re­sent Slytherin - that I want to see them in my of­fice forth­with. I would like you to join us too.”

As Ha­grid nod­ded, turned, and shuf­fled out of the room again, she looked down at Har­ry. “Be­fore I meet them I would like a quick word with you, Har­ry. If you’ll come with me. …”

Har­ry stood up, mur­mured “See you in a bit” to Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny, and fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall back down the ward. The cor­ri­dors out­side were de­sert­ed and the on­ly sound was the dis­tant phoenix song. It was sev­er­al min­utes be­fore Har­ry be­came aware that they were not head­ing for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s of­fice, but for Dum­ble­dore’s, and an­oth­er few sec­onds be­fore he re­al­ized that of course, she had been deputy head­mis­tress, . . . Ap­par­ent­ly she was now head­mis­tress … so the room be­hind the gar­goyle was now hers.

In si­lence they as­cend­ed the mov­ing spi­ral stair­case and en­tered the cir­cu­lar of­fice. He did not know what he had ex­pect­ed: that the room would be draped in black, per­haps, or even that Dum­ble­dore’s body might be ly­ing there. In fact, it looked al­most ex­act­ly as it had done when he and Dum­ble­dore had left it mere hours pre­vi­ous­ly: the sil­ver in­stru­ments whirring and puff­ing on their spin­dle legged ta­bles, Gryffind­or’s sword in its glass case gleam­ing in the moon­light, the Sort­ing Hat on a shelf be­hind the desk, the Fawkes’s perch stood emp­ty, he was still cry­ing his lament to the grounds. And a new por­trait had joined the ranks of the dead head­mas­ters and head­mis­tress­es of Hog­warts: Dum­ble­dore was slum­ber­ing in a gold­en frame over the desk, his half­moon spec­ta­cle perched up­on his crooked nose, look­ing peace­ful and un­trou­bled.

Af­ter glanc­ing once at this por­trait, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall made an odd move­ment as though steel­ing her­self, then round­ed the’ desk to look at Har­ry, her face taut and lined.

“Har­ry,” she said, “I would like to know what you and Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore were do­ing this evening when you left the school.”

“I can’t tell you that, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry. He had ex­pect­ed the ques­tion and had his an­swer ready. It had been here, in this very room, that Dum­ble­dore had told him that he was to con­fide the con­tents of their lessons to no­body but Ron and Hermione.

“Har­ry, it might be im­por­tant,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“It is,” said Har­ry, “very, but he didn’t want me to tell any­one.”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall glared at him. “Pot­ter” - Har­ry reg­is­tered the re­newed use of his sur­name - “in the light of Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore’s death, I think you must see that the sit­ua­tion has changed some­what -“

“I don’t think so,” said Har­ry, shrug­ging. “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore nev­er told me to stop fol­low­ing his or­ders if he died.” But -

“There’s one thing you should know be­fore the Min­istry gets here, though. Madam Ros­mer­ta’s un­der the Im­perius Curse, she was help­ing Mal­foy and the Death Eaters, that’s how the neck­lace and the poi­soned mead -“

“Ros­mer­ta?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in­cred­ulous­ly, but be­fore she could go on, there was a knock on the door be­hind them and Pro­fes­sors Sprout, Flitwick, and Slughorn traipsed in­to the room, fol­lowed by Ha­grid, who was still weep­ing co­pi­ous­ly, his huge frame trem­bling with grief.

“Snape!” ejac­ulat­ed Slughorn, who looked the most shak­en, pale and sweat­ing. “Snape! I taught him! I thought I knew him!”

But be­fore any of them could re­spond to this, a sharp voice spoke from high on the wall: A sal­low­faced wiz­ard with a short black fringe had just walked back in­to his emp­ty can­vas. “Min­er­va, the Min­is­ter will be here with­in sec­onds, he has just Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed from the Min­istry.”

“Thank you, Ev­er­ard,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and she turned quick­ly to her teach­ers.

“I want to talk about what hap­pens to Hog­warts be­fore he gets here,” she said quick­ly. “Per­son­al­ly, I am not con­vinced that the school should re­open next year. The death of the head­mas­ter at the hands of one of our col­leagues is a ter­ri­ble stain up­on Hog­warts’s his­to­ry. It is hor­ri­ble.”

“I am sure Dum­ble­dore would have want­ed the school to re­main open,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout. “I feel that if a sin­gle pupil wants to come, then the school ought to re­main open for that pupil.”

“But will we have a sin­gle pupil af­ter this?” said Slughorn, now dab­bing his sweat­ing brow with a silken hand­ker­chief. “Par­ents will want to keep their chil­dren at home and I can’t say I blame them. Per­son­al­ly, I don’t think we’re in more dan­ger at Hog­warts than we are any­where else, but you can’t ex­pect moth­ers to think like that. They’ll want to keep their fam­ilies to­geth­er, it’s on­ly nat­ural.”

“I agree,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “And in any case, it is not true to say that Dum­ble­dore nev­er en­vis­aged a sit­ua­tion in which Hog­warts might close. When the Cham­ber of Se­crets re­opened he con­sid­ered the clo­sure of the school - and I must say that Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore’s mur­der is more dis­turb­ing to me than the idea of Slytherin’s mon­ster liv­ing un­de­tect­ed in the bow­els of the cas­tle. . . .”

“We must con­sult the gov­er­nors,” said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick in his squeaky lit­tle voice; he had a large bruise on his fore­head but seemed oth­er­wise un­scathed by his col­lapse in Snape’s of­fice. “We must fol­low the es­tab­lished pro­ce­dures. A de­ci­sion should not be made hasti­ly.”

“Ha­grid, you haven’t said any­thing,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “What are your views, ought Hog­warts to re­main open?”

Ha­grid, who had been weep­ing silent­ly in­to his large, spot­ted hand­ker­chief through­out this con­ver­sa­tion, now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, “I dun­no, Pro­fes­sor . . . that’s fer the Heads of House an the head­mis­tress ter de­cide …”

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore al­ways val­ued your views,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall kind­ly, “and so do I.”

“Well, I’m stayin,” said Ha­grid, fat tears still leak­ing out of the cor­ners of his eyes and trick­ling down in­to his tan­gled beard. “It’s me home, it’s bin me home since I was thir­teen. An’ if there’s kids who wan’ me ter teach ‘em, I’ll do it. But… I dun­no … Hog­warts with­out Dum­ble­dore .. .” He gulped and dis­ap­peared be­hind his hand­ker­chief once more, and there was si­lence.

“Very well,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, glanc­ing out of the win­dow at the grounds, check­ing to see whether the Min­is­ter was yet ap­proach­ing, “then I must agree with Fil­ius that the right thing to do is to con­sult the gov­er­nors, who will make the fi­nal de­ci­sion.

“Now, as to get­ting stu­dents home . . . there is an ar­gu­ment for do­ing it soon­er rather than lat­er. We could ar­range for the Hog­warts Ex­press to come to­mor­row if nec­es­sary -“

“What about Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al?” said Har­ry, speak­ing at last.

“Well. . .” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, los­ing a lit­tle of her brisk­ness as her voice shook. “I - I know that it was Dum­ble­dore’s wish to be laid to rest here, at Hog­warts -“

“Then that’s what’ll hap­pen, isn’t it?” said Har­ry fierce­ly.

“If the Min­istry thinks it ap­pro­pri­ate,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “No oth­er head­mas­ter or head­mis­tress has ev­er been -“

“No oth­er head­mas­ter or head­mis­tress ev­er gave more to this school,” growled Ha­grid.

“Hog­warts should be Dum­ble­dore’s fi­nal rest­ing place,” said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick.

“Ab­so­lute­ly,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout.

“And in that case,” said Har­ry, “you shouldn’t send the stu­dents home un­til the jfu­ner­al’s over. They’ll want to say -“

The last word caught in his throat, but Pro­fes­sor Sprout com­plet­ed the sen­tence for him. “Good­bye.”

“Well said,” squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick. “Well said in­deed! Our stu­dents should pay trib­ute, it is fit­ting. We can ar­range trans­port home af­ter­ward.”

“Sec­ond­ed,” barked Pro­fes­sor Sprout. ]

“I sup­pose … yes .. .” said Slughorn in a rather ag­itat­ed voice, while Ha­grid let out a stran­gled sob of as­sent.

“He’s com­ing,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sud­den­ly, gaz­ing down in­to the grounds. “The Min­is­ter . . . and by the looks of it. he’s brought a del­ega­tion . . .”

“Can I leave, Pro­fes­sor?” said Har­ry at once.

He had no de­sire at all to see, or be in­ter­ro­gat­ed by, Ru­fus Scrim­geour tonight.

“You may,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “And quick­ly.”

She strode to­ward the door and held it open for him. He sped down the spi­ral stair­case and off along the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor; hehad left his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak at the top of the As­tron­omy Tow­er, but it did not mat­ter; there was no­body in the cor­ri­dors to see him pass, not even Filch, Mrs. Nor­ris, or Peeves. He did not meet an­oth­er soul un­til he turned in­to the pas­sage lead­ing to the Gryffind­or com­mon room.

“Is it true?” whis­pered the Fat La­dy as he ap­proached her. “It is re­al­ly true? Dum­ble­dore - dead?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry.

She let out a wail and, with­out wait­ing for the pass­word, swung for­ward to ad­mit him.

As Har­ry had sus­pect­ed it would be, the com­mon room was jam­packed. The room fell silent as he climbed through the por­trait hole. He saw Dean and Sea­mus sit­ting in a group near­by: This meant that the dor­mi­to­ry must be emp­ty, or near­ly so. With­out speak­ing to any­body, with­out mak­ing eye con­tact at all, Har­ry walked straight across the room and through the door to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries.

As he had hoped, Ron was wait­ing for him, still ful­ly dressed, sit­ting on his bed. Har­ry sat down on his own four­poster and for a mo­ment, they sim­ply stared at each oth­er.

“They’re talk­ing about clos­ing the school,” said Har­ry.

“Lupin said they would,” said Ron.

There was a pause.

“So?” said Ron in a very low voice, as though he thought the fur­ni­ture might be lis­ten­ing in. “Did you find one? Did you get it? A - a Hor­crux?”

Har­ry shook his head. All that had tak­en place around that black lake seemed like an old night­mare now; had it re­al­ly hap­pened, and on­ly hours ago?

“You didn’t get it?” said Ron, look­ing crest­fall­en. “It wasn’t there?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “Some­one had al­ready tak­en it and left a fake in its place.”

“Al­ready tak­en - ?”

Word­less­ly, Har­ry pulled the fake lock­et from his pock­et, opened it, and passed it to Ron. The full sto­ry could wait. … It did not mat­ter tonight. . . noth­ing mat­tered ex­cept the end, the end of their point­less ad­ven­ture, the end of Dum­ble­dore’s life. . . .

“R.A.B.,” whis­pered Ron, “but who was that?”

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry, ly­ing back on his bed ful­ly clothed and star­ing blankly up­wards. He felt no cu­rios­ity at all about R.A.B.: He doubt­ed that he would ev­er feel cu­ri­ous again. As he lay there, he be­came aware sud­den­ly that the grounds were silent. Fawkes had stopped singing. And he knew, with­out know­ing how he knew it, that ilie phoenix had gone, had left Hog­warts for good, just as Dum­ble­dore had left the school, had left the world . . . had left Har­ry.





Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince





Chapter 30: The White Tomb


All lessons were sus­pend­ed, all ex­am­ina­tions post­poned. Some stu­dents were hur­ried away from Hog­warts by their par­ents over the next cou­ple of days - the Patil twins were gone be­fore break­fast on the morn­ing fol­low­ing Dum­ble­dore’s death and Zacharias Smith was es­cort­ed from the cas­tle by his haughty­look­ing fa­ther. Sea­mus Finni­gan, on the oth­er hand, re­fused point­blank to ac­com­pa­ny his moth­er home; they had a shout­ing match in the En­trance Hall which was re­solved when she agreed that he could re­main be­hind for the fu­ner­al. She had dif­fi­cul­ty in find­ing a bed in Hogsmeade, Sea­mus told Har­ry and Ron, for wiz­ards and witch­es were pour­ing in­to the vil­lage, prepar­ing to pay their last re­spects to Durn­ble­dore.

Some ex­cite­ment was caused among the younger stu­dents, who had nev­er seen it be­fore, when a pow­derblue car­riage the size of a house, pulled by a dozen gi­ant winged pa­lo­mi­nos, came soar­ing out of the sky in the late af­ter­noon be­fore the fu­ner­al and land­ed on the edge of the For­est. Har­ry watched from a win­dow as a gi­gan­tic and hand­some olive­skinned, black­haired wom­an de­scend­ed the car­riage steps and threw her­self in­to the wait­ing Ha­grid’s arms. Mean­while a del­ega­tion of Min­istry of­fi­cials, in­clud­ing the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic him­self, was be­ing ac­com­mo­dat­ed with­in the cas­tle. Har­ry was dili­gent­ly avoid­ing con­tact with any of them; he

was sure that, soon­er or lat­er, he would be asked again to ac­count for Dum­ble­dore’s last ex­cur­sion from Hog­warts.

Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny were spend­ing all of their time to­geth­er. The beau­ti­ful weath­er seemed to mock them; Har­ry could imag­ine how it would have been if Durn­ble­dore had not died, and they had had this time to­geth­er at the very end of the year, Gin­ny’s ex­am­ina­tions fin­ished, the pres­sure of home­work lift­ed … and hour by hour, he put off say­ing the thing that he knew he must say, do­ing what he knew it was right to do, be­cause it was too hard to for­go his best source of com­fort.

They vis­it­ed the hos­pi­tal wing twice a day: Neville had been dis­charged, but Bill re­mained un­der Madam Pom­frey’s care. His scars were as bad as ev­er; in truth, he now bore a dis­tinct re­sem­blance to Mad­Eye Moody, though thank­ful­ly with both eyes and legs, but in per­son­al­ity he seemed jusi the same as ev­er. All that ap­peared to have changed was that he now had a great lik­ing for very rare steaks.

‘… so eet ees lucky ‘e is mar­ry­ing me,’ said Fleur hap­pi­ly, plump­ing up Bill’s pil­lows, ‘be­cause ze British over­cook their meat, I ‘ave al­ways said this.’

‘I sup­pose I’m just go­ing to have to ac­cept that he re­al­ly is go­ing to mar­ry her,’ sighed Gin­ny lat­er that evening, as she, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat be­side the open win­dow of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, look­ing out over the twilit grounds,

‘She’s not that bad,’ said Har­ry. ‘Ug­ly, though,’ he added hasti­ly, as Gin­ny raised her eye­brows, and she let out a re­luc­tant gig­gle.

‘Well, I sup­pose if Mum can stand it, 1 can.’

‘Any­one else we know died?’ Ron asked Hermione, who was pe­rus­ing the Evening Prophet.

Hermione winced at the forced tough­ness in his voice.

‘No,’ she said re­prov­ing­ly, fold­ing up ihe news­pa­per. ‘They’re still look­ing for Snape, but no sign …’

‘Of course there isn’t,’ said Har­ry, who be­came an­gry ev­ery lime this sub­ject cropped up. They won’t find Snape till they find Volde­mort, and see­ing as they’ve nev­er man­aged to do that in all this time …’

‘I’m go­ing to go to bed,’ yawned Gin­ny. ‘I haven’t been sleep­ing thai well since … well … I could do with some sleep.’

She kissed Har­ry (Ron looked away point­ed­ly), waved al the oth­er two and de­part­ed for the girls’ dor­mi­to­ries. The mo­ment the door had closed be­hind her, Hermione leaned for­wards to­wards Har­ry with a most Hermioneish look on her face.

‘Har­ry, I found some­thing ou( this morn­ing, in the li­brary ..,’

‘R.A.B.?’ said Har­ry, silling up straight.

He did not feel the way he had so of­ten felt be­fore, ex­cit­ed, cu­ri­ous, burn­ing to get to the bot­tom of a mys­tery; he sim­ply knew that the task of dis­cov­er­ing the truth about the re­al Hor­crux had to be com­plet­ed be­fore he could move a lit­tle fur­ther along the dark and wind­ing path stretch­ing ahead of him, the path that he and Dum­ble­dore had set out up­on to­geth­er, and which he now knew he would have to jour­ney alone. There might still be as many as four Hor­crux­es out there some­where and each would need to be found and elim­inat­ed be­fore there was even a pos­si­bil­ity that Volde­mort could be killed. He kept recit­ing their names to him­self, as though by list­ing them he could bring them with­in reach: ‘the lock­et .., the cup … the snake … some­thing of Gryffind­or’s or Raven­claw’s … the lock­et … the cup … the snake … some­thing of Gryffind­or’s or Raven­claw’s …’

This mantra seemed to pulse through Har­ry’s mind as he

fell asleep at night, and his dreams were thick with cups, lock­ets and mys­te­ri­ous ob­jects that he could not quite reach, though Dum­ble­dore help­ful­ly of­fered Har­ry a rope lad­der that turned to snakes the mo­ment he be­gan to climb …

He had shown Hermione the note in­side the lock­et the morn­ing af­ter Dum­ble­dore’s death, and al­though she had not im­me­di­ate­ly recog­nised the ini­tials as be­long­ing to some ob­scure wiz­ard about whom she had been read­ing, she had since been rush­ing off to the li­brary a lit­tle more of­ten than was strict­ly nec­es­sary for some­body who had no home­work to do.

‘No,’ she said sad­ly, ‘I’ve been try­ing, Har­ry, but I haven’t found any­thing … there are a cou­ple of rea­son­ably well­known wiz­ards with those ini­tials - Ros­alind Antigone Bungs … Ru­pert “Axe­banger” Brook­stan­ton … but they don’t seem to fit at all. Judg­ing by that note, the per­son who stole the Hor­crux knew Volde­mort, and I can’t find a shred of ev­idence that Bungs or Axe­banger ev­er had any­thing to do with him … no, ac­tu­al­ly, it’s about … well, Snape.’

She looked ner­vous even say­ing the name again.

‘What about him?’ asked Har­ry heav­ily, slump­ing back in his chair.

‘Well, it’s just that I was sort of right about the Half­Blood Prince busi­ness,’ she said ten­ta­tive­ly.

‘D’you have to rub it in, Hermione? How tTy­ou think 1 feel about that now?’

‘No - no - Har­ry, I didn’t mean that!’ she said hasti­ly, look­ing around to check that they were not be­ing over­heard. ‘It’s just that 1 was right about Eileen Prince once own­ing the book. You see … she was Snape’s moth­er!’

T thought she wasn’t much of a look­er,’ said Ron. Hermione ig­nored him.

‘1 was go­ing through ihe rest of the old Prophets and there

was a tiny an­nounce­ment about Eileen Prince mar­ry­ing a man called To­bias Snape, and then lat­er an an­nounce­ment say­ing that she’d giv­en birth to a -’

‘- mur­der­er,’ spat Har­ry.

‘Well … yes,’ said Hermione. ‘So … 1 was sort of right. Snape must have been proud of be­ing “half a Prince”, you see? To­bias Snape was a Mug­gie from what it said in the Prophet’

‘Yeah, that fits,’ said Har­ry. ‘He’d play up the pure­blood side so he could get in with Lu­cius Mal­foy and the rest of them … he’s just like Volde­mort. Pure­blood moth­er, Mug­gie fa­ther … ashamed of his par­ent­age, try­ing to make him­self feared us­ing the Dark Arts, gave him­self an im­pres­sive new name - Lard Volde­mort - the Half­Blood Prince - how could Dum­ble­dore have missed -?’

He broke off, look­ing out of the win­dow. He could not stop him­self dwelling up­on Dum­ble­dore’s in­ex­cus­able trust in Snape … but as Hermione had just in­ad­ver­tent­ly re­mind­ed him, he, Har­ry, had been tak­en in just the same … in spite of the in­creas­ing nas­ti­ness of those scrib­bled spells, he had re­fused to be­lieve ill of the boy who had been so clever, who had helped him so much …

Helped him … it was an al­most un­en­durable thought, now …

‘I still don’t get why he didn’t turn you in for us­ing that book,’ said Ron. ‘He must’ve known where you were get­ting it ali from.’

‘He knew,’ said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. ‘He knew when I used Sec­fum­sem­pra. He didn’t re­al­ly need Legili­men­cy … he might even have known be­fore then, with Slughom talk­ing about how bril­liant I was at Po­tions … shouldn’t have left his old book in the bot­tom of that cup­board, should he?’

‘But why didn’t he turn you in?’

‘I don’t ihink he want­ed to as­so­ciate him­self with that book,’ said Hermione. ‘I don’t think Dum­ble­dore would have liked it very much if he’d known. And even if Snape pre­tend­ed it hadn’t been his, Slughom would have recog­nised his writ­ing at once. Any­way, the book was left in Snape’s old class­room, and I’ll bet Dum­ble­dore knew his moth­er was called “Prince”.’

T should’ve shown the book to Dum­ble­dore,’ said Har­ry. ‘All that lime he was show­ing me how Volde­mort was evil even when he was at school, and 1 had proof Snape was, too -’

‘”Evil” is a strong word,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly.

‘You were the one who kept telling me the book was dan­ger­ous!’

‘I’m try­ing to say, Har­ry, that you’re pulling too much blame on your­self. 1 thought the Prince seemed to have a nasty sense of hu­mour, but I would nev­er have guessed he was a po­ten­tial killer …’

‘None of us could’ve guessed Snape would … you know,’ said Ron.

Si­lence fell be­tween them, each of them lost in their own thoughts, but Har­ry was sure that they, like him, were think­ing about the fol­low­ing morn­ing, when Dum­ble­dore’s body would be laid to rest. Har­ry had nev­er at­tend­ed a fu­ner­al be­fore; there had been no body to bury when Sir­ius had died. He did not know what to ex­pect and was a lit­tle wor­ried about what he might see, about how he would feel. He won­dered whether Dum­ble­dore’s death would be more re­al to him once the fu­ner­al was over. Though he had mo­ments when the hor­ri­ble fact of it threat­ened to over­whelm him, there were blank stretch­es of numb­ness where, de­spite the fact that no­body was talk­ing about any­thing else in the whole cas­tle, he still found it dif­fi­cult 10 be­lieve that Dum­ble­dore

had re­al­ly gone. Ad­mit­ted­ly he had not, as he had with Sir­ius, looked des­per­ate­ly for some kind of loop­hole, some way that Dum­ble­dore would come back … he felt in his pock­et for the cold chain of the fake Hor­crux, which he now car­ried with him ev­ery­where, not as a tal­is­man, but as a re­min­der of what it had cost and what re­mained still to do.

Har­ry rose ear­ly to pack the next day; the Hog­warts Ex­press would be leav­ing an hour af­ter the fu­ner­al. Down­stairs he found the mood in the Great Hall sub­dued. Ev­ery­body was wear­ing their dress robes and no one seemed very hun­gry. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had left the throne­like chair in the mid­dle of the staff ta­ble emp­ty. Ha­grid’s chair was des­ert­ed too: Har­ry thought thai per­haps he had not been able to face break­fast; but Snape’s place had been un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly filled by Ru­fus Scrim­geour. Har­ry avoid­ed his yel­low­ish eyes as they scanned the Hall; Har­ry had the un­com­fort­able feel­ing that Scrim­geour was look­ing for him. Among Scrim­geour’s en­tourage Har­ry spot­ted the red hair and horn­rimmed glass­es of Per­cy Weasley. Ron gave no sign that he was aware of Per­cy, apart from stab­bing pieces of kip­per with un­wont­ed ven­om.

Over at the Slytherin ta­ble Crabbe and Goyle were mut­ter­

ing to­geth­er. Hulk­ing boys though they were, they looked

odd­ly lone­ly with­out the tall, pale fig­ure of Mal­foy be­tween

them, boss­ing them around. Har­ry had not spared Mal­foy

much thought. His an­imos­ity was all for Snape, but he had

not for­got­ten the fear in Mal­foy’s voice on that Tow­er top, nor

the fact that he had low­ered his wand be­fore the oth­er Death

Eaters ar­rived. Har­ry did not be­lieve that Mal­foy would have

killed Dum­ble­dore. He de­spised Mal­foy still for his in­fatu­

ation with the Dark Arts, but now the ti­ni­est drop of pity

min­gled with his dis­like. Where, Har­ry won­dered, was Mal­foy

now, and what was Volde­mort mak­ing him do un­der threat of

killing him and his par­ents? ? •••>.

Har­ry’s thoughts were in­ter­rupt­ed by a nudge in the ribs from Gin­ny. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had risen to her feet and the mourn­ful hum in the Hall died away at once.

‘It is near­ly time,’ she said. ‘Please fol­low your Heads of House out in­to the grounds. Gryffind­ors, af­ter me.’

They filed out from be­hind their bench­es in near si­lence. Har­ry glimpsed Slughorn at the head of the Slytherin col­umn, wear­ing mag­nif­icent long emer­ald­green robes em­broi­dered with sil­ver. He had nev­er seen Pro­fes­sor Sprout, Head of the Huf­flepuffs, look­ing so clean; there was not a sin­gle patch on her hat, and when they reached the En­trance Hall, they found Madam Pince stand­ing be­side Filch, she in a thick black veil that fell to her knees, he in an an­cient black suit and tie reek­ing of moth­bails.

They were head­ing, as Har­ry saw when he stepped out on to the stone steps from the front doors, to­wards the lake. The warmth of the sun ca­ressed his face as they fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in si­lence to the place where hun­dreds of chairs had been set out in rows. An aisle ran down the cen­tre of them: there was a mar­ble ta­ble stand­ing at the front, all chairs fac­ing it. It was the most beau­ti­ful sum­mer’s day.

An ex­traor­di­nary as­sort­ment of peo­ple had al­ready set­tled in­to half of the chairs: shab­by and smart, old and young. Most Har­ry did not recog­nise, but there were a few that he did, in­clud­ing mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix: Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt, Mad­Eye Moody, Tonks, her hair mirac­ulous­ly re­turned to vi­videst pink, Re­mus Lupin, with whom she seemed to be hold­ing hands, Mr and Mrs Weasley, Bill sup­port­ed by Fleur and fol­lowed by Fred and George, who were wear­ing jack­ets of black drag­on­skin. Then there was Madame Maxime, who took up twoan­da­half chairs on her own, Tom, the land­lord of the Leaky Caul­dron, Ara­bel­la Figg, Har­ry’s Squib neigh­bour, the hairy bass play­er from the

wiz­ard­mg group the Weird bis­ters, hrnie Frang, dnver ol the Knight Bus, Madam Malkin, of the robe shop in Di­agon Al­ley, and some peo­ple whom Har­ry mere­ly knew by sight, such as the bar­man of the Hog’s Head and the witch who pushed the trol­ley on the Hog­warts Ex­press. The cas­tle ghosts were there too, bare­ly vis­ible in the bright sun­light, dis­cernible on­ly when they moved, shim­mer­ing in­sub­stan­tial­ly in the gleam­ing air.

Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny filed in­to seats at the end of a row be­side the lake. Peo­ple were whis­per­ing to each oth­er; it sound­ed like a breeze in the grass, but the bird­song was loud­er by far. The crowd con­tin­ued to swell; with a great rush of af­fec­tion for both of them, Har­ry saw Neville be­ing helped in­to a seat by Lu­na. They alone of all the DA had re­spond­ed to Hermione’s sum­mons the night that Dum­ble­dore had died, and Har­ry knew why: they were the ones who had missed the DA most … prob­ably the ones who had checked their coins reg­ular­ly in the hope that there would be an­oth­er meet­ing …

Cor­nelius Fudge walked past them to­wards the front rows, his ex­pres­sion mis­er­able, twirling his green bowler hat as usu­al; Har­ry next recog­nised Ri­ta Skeeter, who, he was in­fu­ri­at­ed to see, had a note­book clutched in her red­takmed hand; and then, with a worse jolt of fury, Do­lores Um­bridge, an un­con­vinc­ing ex­pres­sion of grief up­on her toad­like face, a black vel­vet bow set atop her iron­coloured curls. At the sight of the cen­taur Firen­ze, who was stand­ing like a sen­tinel near the wa­ter’s edge, she gave a start and scur­ried hasti­ly in­to a seat a good dis­tance away.

The staff were seat­ed at last. Har­ry could see Scrim­geour look­ing grave and dig­ni­fied in the front row with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. He won­dered whether Scrim­geour or any of these im­por­tant peo­ple were re­al­ly sor­ry that Dum­ble­dore wasand he for­got his dis­like of the Min­istry in look­ing around for the source of it. He was not the on­ly one: many heads were turn­ing, search­ing, a lit­tle alarmed.

‘In there,’ whis­pered Gin­ny in Har­ry’s ear.

And he saw them in the clear green sun­lit wa­ter, inch­es be­low the sur­face, re­mind­ing him hor­ri­bly of the In­feri; a cho­rus of mer­peo­ple singing in a strange lan­guage he did not un­der­stand, their pal­lid faces rip­pling, their pur­plish hair flow­ing all around them. The mu­sic made the hair on Har­ry’s neck stand up and yet it was not un­pleas­ant. It spoke very clear­ly of loss and of de­spair. As he looked down in­to the wild faces of the singers he had the feel­ing that they, at least, were sor­ry for Dum­ble­dore’s pass­ing. Then Gin­ny nudged him again and he looked round.

Ha­grid was walk­ing slow­ly up the aisle be­tween the chairs. He was cry­ing quite silent­ly, his face gleam­ing with tears, and in his arms, wrapped in pur­ple vel­vet span­gled with gold­en stars, was what Har­ry knew to be Dum­ble­dore’s body. A sharp pain rose in Har­ry’s throat at this sight: for a mo­ment, the strange mu­sic and the knowl­edge that Dum­ble­dore’s body was so close seemed to take all warmth from the day. Ron looked white and shocked. Tears were falling thick and fast in­to both Gin­ny and Hermione’s laps.

They could not see clear­ly what was hap­pen­ing at the front. Ha­grid seemed to have placed the body care­ful­ly up­on the ta­ble. Now he re­treat­ed down the aisle, blow­ing his nose with loud trum­pet­ing nois­es that drew scan­dalised looks from some, in­clud­ing, Har­ry saw, Do­lores Um­bridge … but Har­ry knew that Dum­ble­dore would not have cared. He tried to make a friend­ly ges­ture to Ha­grid as he passed, but Ha­grid’s eyes were so swollen it was a won­der he could see where he was go­ing. Har­ry glanced at the back row to which Ha­grid

was head­ing and re­alised what was guid­ing him, for there, dressed in a jack­et and trousers each the size of a small mar­quee, was the gi­ant Grawp, his great ug­ly boul­der­like head bowed, docile, al­most hu­man. Ha­grid sat down next to his half­broth­er and Grawp palled Ha­grid hard on the head, so that his chair legs sank in­to the ground. Har­ry had a won­der­ful mo­men­tary urge to laugh. But then the mu­sic stopped and he turned to face the front again.

A lit­tle tufty­haired man in plain black robes had got to his feet and stood now in front of Dum­ble­dore’s body. Har­ry could not hear what he was say­ing. Odd words float­ed back to them over the hun­dreds of beads. ‘No­bil­ity of spir­it’ … ‘in­tel­lec­tu­al con­tri­bu­tion’ … ‘great­ness of heart’ … it did not mean very much. It had lit­tle to do with Dum­ble­dore as Har­ry had known him. He sud­den­ly re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore’s idea of a few words: ‘nitwit’, ‘odd­ment’, ‘blub­ber’ and ‘tweak 1, and again, had to sup­press a grin … what was the mat­ter with him?

There was a soft splash­ing noise to his left and he saw that the mer­peo­ple had bro­ken the sur­face to lis­ten, too. He re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore crouch­ing at the wa­ter’s edge two years ago, very close to where Har­ry now sat, and con­vers­ing in Mer­mish with the Mer­chief­tai­ness. Har­ry won­dered where Dum­ble­dore had learned Mer­mish. There was so much he had nev­er asked him, so much he should have said …

And then, with­out warn­ing, it swept over him, the dread­ful truth, more com­plete­ly and un­de­ni­ably than it had un­til now. Dum­ble­dore was dead, gone … he clutched the cold lock­et in his hand so tight­ly that it hurt, but he could not pre­vent hot tears spilling from his eyes: he looked away from Gin­ny and the oth­ers and stared out over the lake, to­wards the For­est, as the lit­tle man in black droned on … there was move­ment among the trees. The cen­taurs had come to pay their re­spects, too. They did not move in­to the open but Har­ry saw them

stand­ing quite still, halfhid­den in shad­ow, watch­ing the wiz­ards, their bows hang­ing at their sides. And Har­ry re­mem­bered his first night­mar­ish trip in­to the For­est, the first time he had ev­er en­coun­tered the thing that was then Volde­mort, and how he had faced him, and how he and Dum­ble­dore had dis­cussed fight­ing a los­ing bat­tle not long there­af­ter. It was im­por­tant, Dum­ble­dore said, to fight, and fight again, and keep fight­ing, for on­ly then could evil be kept at bay, though nev­er quite er­ad­icat­ed …

And Har­ry saw very clear­ly as be sal there un­der the hot sun bow peo­ple who cared about him had stood in front of him one by one, his moth­er, his fa­ther, his god­fa­ther, and fi­nal­ly Dum­ble­dore, all de­ter­mined to pro­tect him; but now that was over. He could not let any­body else stand be­tween him and Volde­mort; he must aban­don for ev­er the il­lu­sion he ought to have lost at the age of one: that the shel­ter of a par­ent’s arms meant that noth­ing could hurt him. There was no wak­ing from his night­mare, no com­fort­ing whis­per in the dark that he was safe re­al­ly, that it was all in his imag­ina­tion; the last and great­est of his pro­te­clors had died and he was more alone than he had ev­er been be­fore.

The lit­tle man in black had stopped speak­ing at last and re­sumed his seat. Har­ry wait­ed for some­body else to get to their feet; he ex­pect­ed speech­es, prob­ably from the Min­is­ter, but no­body moved.

Then sev­er­al peo­ple screamed. Bright, white flames had erupt­ed around Dum­ble­dore’s body and the ta­ble up­on which it lay: high­er and high­er they rose, ob­scur­ing the body. White smoke spi­ralled in­to the air and made strange shapes: Har­ry thought, for one heart­stop­ping mo­ment, that he saw a phoenix fly joy­ful­ly in­to the blue, but next sec­ond the fire had van­ished. In its place was a white mar­ble tomb, en­cas­ing Dum­ble­dore’s body and the ta­ble on which he had rest­ed.

There were a few more cries of shock as a show­er of ar­rows soared through the air, but they fell far short of the crowd. It was, Har­ry knew, the cen­taurs’ trib­ute: he saw them turn tail and dis­ap­pear back in­to the cool trees. Like­wise the mer­peo­ple sank slow­ly back in­to the green wa­ter and were lost from view.

Har­ry looked ai Gin­ny, Ron and Hermione: Ron’s face was screwed up as though the sun­light was blind­ing him. Hermione’s face was glazed with tears, but Gin­ny was no longer cry­ing. She met Har­ry’s gaze with the same hard, blaz­ing look that he had seen when she had hugged him af­ter win­ning the Quid­ditch Cup in his ab­sence, and he knew that at that mo­ment they un­der­stood each oth­er per­fect­ly, and that when he told her what he was go­ing to do now, she would not say ‘Be care­ful’, or ‘Don’t do it’, but ac­cept his de­ci­sion, be­cause she would not have ex­pect­ed any­thing less of him. And so he steeled him­self to say what he had known he must say ev­er since Dum­ble­dore had died.

‘Gin­ny, lis­ten …’ he said very qui­et­ly, as the buzz of con­ver­sa­tion grew loud­er around them and peo­ple be­gan to get to their feet. ‘I can’t be in­volved with you any more. We’ve got to stop see­ing each oth­er. We can’t be to­geth­er.’

She said, with an odd­ly twist­ed smile, ‘It’s for some stupid, no­ble rea­son, isn’t it?’

‘It’s been like … like some­thing out of some­one else’s life, these last few weeks with you,’ said Har­ry. ‘But 1 can’t … we can’t … I’ve got things to do alone now.’

She did not cry, she sim­ply looked at him,

‘Volde­mort us­es peo­ple his en­emies are close to. He’s al­ready used you as bait once, and that was just be­cause you’re my best friend’s sis­ter. Think how much dan­ger you’ll be in if we keep this up. He’ll know, he’ll find out. He’ll try and get to me through you.’

‘What if I don’t care?’ said Gin­ny fierce­ly.

‘I care,’ said Har­ry. ‘How do you think I’d feel if this was your fu­ner­al … and it was my fault …’

She looked away from him, over the lake.

T nev­er re­al­ly gave up on you,’ she said. ‘Not re­al­ly. I al­ways hoped … Hermione told me to get on with life, maybe go out with some oth­er peo­ple, re­lax a bit around you, be­cause I nev­er used to be able to talk if you were in the room, re­mem­ber? And she thought you might take a bit more no­tice if I was a bit more - my­self.’

‘Smart girl, that Hermione,’ said Har­ry, try­ing to smile. ‘I just wish I’d asked you soon­er. We couk­Tve had ages … months … years maybe …’

‘But you’ve been too busy sav­ing the wiz­ard­ing world,’ said Gin­ny, halflaugh­ing. ‘Well … I can’t say I’m sur­prised. I knew this would hap­pen in the end. I knew you wouldn’t be hap­py un­less you were hunt­ing Volde­mort. Maybe that’s why I like you so much.’

Har­ry could not bear to hear these things, nor did he think his res­olu­tion would hold if he re­mained sit­ting be­side her. Ron, he saw, was now hold­ing Hermione and stroking her hair while she sobbed in­to his shoul­der, tears drip­ping from the end of his own long nose. With a mis­er­able ges­ture, Har­ry got up, turned his back on Gin­ny and on Dum­ble­dore’s tomb and walked away around the lake. Mov­ing felt much more bear­able than sit­ting still: just as set­ting out as soon as pos­si­ble to track down the Hor­crux­es and kill Volde­mort would feel bet­ter than wait­ing to do it …

‘Har­ry!’

He turned. Ru­fus Scrim­geour was limp­ing rapid­ly to­wards him around the bank, lean­ing on his walk­ing stick.

‘I’ve been hop­ing to have a word … do you mind if I walk a lit­tle way with you?’

‘No,’ said Har­ry in­dif­fer­ent­ly, and set off again.

‘Har­ry, this was a dread­ful tragedy,’ said Scrim­geour qui­et­ly, ‘I can­not tell you how ap­palled I was to hear of it. Dum­ble­dore was a very great wiz­ard. We had our dis­agree­ments, as you know, but no one knows bet­ter than 1 -’

•What do you want?’ asked Har­ry flat­ly.

Scrim­geour looked an­noyed but, as be­fore, hasti­ly mod­ified his ex­pres­sion to one of sor­row­ful un­der­stand­ing.

‘You are, of course, dev­as­tat­ed,’ he said. ‘I know that you were very close to Dum­ble­dore. I think you may have been his favourite ev­er pupil. The bond be­tween the two of you -’

‘What do you want?’ Har­ry re­peat­ed, com­ing to a halt.

Scrim­geour stopped too, leaned on his stick and stared at Har­ry, his ex­pres­sion shrewd now.

‘The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that he died.’

‘Whose word?’ said Har­ry.

‘Some­body Stu­pe­fied a Death Eater on top of the Tow­er af­ter Dum­ble­dore died. There were al­so two broom­sticks up there. The Min­istry can add two and two, Har­ry.’

‘Glad to hear it,’ said Har­ry. ‘Well, where I went with Dum­ble­dore and what we did is my busi­ness. He didn’t want peo­ple to know.’

‘Such loy­al­ty is ad­mirable, of course,’ said Scrim­geour, who seemed to be re­strain­ing his ir­ri­ta­tion with dif­fi­cul­ty, ‘bul Dum­ble­dore is gone, Har­ry. He’s gone.’

‘He will on­ly be gone from the school when none here are loy­al to him,’ said Har­ry, smil­ing in spite of him­self.

‘My dear boy … even Dum­ble­dore can­not re­turn from the-’

‘I am not say­ing he can. You wouldn’t un­der­stand. But I’ve got noth­ing to tell you.’

Scrim­geour hes­itat­ed, then said, in what was ev­ident­ly

sup­posed to be a tone of del­ica­cy, The Min­istry can of­fer you all sorts of pro­tec­tion, you know, Har­ry. I would be de­light­ed to place a cou­ple of my Au­rors at your ser­vice -’

Har­ry laughed.

‘Volde­mort wants to kill me him­self and Au­rors won’t stop him. So thanks for the of­fer, but no thanks.’

‘So,’ said Scrim­geour, his voice cold now, ‘the re­quest 1 made of you at Christ­mas -’

‘What re­quest? Oh yeah … the one where I tell the world what a great job you’re do­ing in ex­change for —’

‘- for rais­ing ev­ery­one’s morale!’ snapped Scrim­geour.

Har­ry con­sid­ered him for a mo­ment.

‘Re­leased Stan Shun­pike yet?’

Scrim­geour turned a nasty pur­ple colour high­ly remin­is­cent of Un­cle Ver­non.

‘1 see you are -’

‘Dum­ble­dore’s man through and through,’ said Har­ry. ‘That’s right.’

Scrim­geour glared at him for an­oth­er mo­ment, then turned and limped away with­out an­oth­er word. Har­ry could see Per­cy and the rest of the Min­istry del­ega­tion wait­ing for him, cast­ing ner­vous glances at the sob­bing Ha­grid and Grawp, who were still in their seats. Ron and Hermione were hur­ry­ing to­wards Har­ry, pass­ing Scrim­geour go­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion; Har­ry turned and walked slow­ly on, wait­ing for them to catch up, which they fi­nal­ly did in the shade of a beech tree un­der which they had sat in hap­pi­er times.

“What did Scrim­geour want?’ Hermione whis­pered.

‘Same as he want­ed at Christ­mas,’ shrugged Har­ry. ‘Want­ed me to give him in­side in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore and be the Min­istry’s new poster boy.’

Ron seemed to strug­gle with him­self for a mo­ment, then he said loud­ly to Hermione, ‘Look, let me go back and hit Per­cy!’

‘No,’ she said firm­ly, grab­bing his arm.

‘It’ll make me feel bet­ter!’

Har­ry laughed. Even Hermione grinned a lit­tle, though her smile fad­ed as she looked up at the cas­tle.

‘I can’t bear the idea that we might nev­er come back.’ she said soft­ly. ‘How can Hog­warts close?’

‘Maybe it won’t,’ said Ron. ‘We’re not in any more dan­ger here than we are at home, are we? Ev­ery­where’s the same now. I’d even say Hog­warts is safer, there are more wiz­ards in­side to de­fend the place. What d’you reck­on, Har­ry?’

‘I’m not com­ing back even if it does re­open,’ said Har­ry.

Ron gaped at him, but Hermione said sad­ly, ‘I knew you were go­ing to say that. But then what will you do? 1

‘I’m go­ing back to the Durs­leys’ once more, be­cause Dum­ble­dore want­ed me to,’ said Har­ry. ‘But it’ll be a short vis­it, and then I’ll be gone for good.’

‘But where will you go if you don’t come back to school?’

‘I thought I might go back to Go­dric’s Hol­low,’ Har­ry mut­tered. He had had the idea in his head ev­er since the night of Dum­ble­dore’s death. ‘For me, it start­ed there, all of it. I’ve just got a feel­ing I need to go there. And I can vis­it my par­ents’ graves, I’d like that.’

‘And then what?’ said Ron.

Then I’ve got to track down the rest of the Hor­crux­es, haven’t I?’ said Har­ry, his eyes up­on Dum­ble­dore’s white tomb, re­flect­ed in the wa­ter on the oth­er side of the lake. That’s what he want­ed me to do, that’s why he told me all about them. If Dum­ble­dore was right - and I’m sure he was -there are still four of them out there. I’ve got to find them and de­stroy them and then I’ve got to go af­ter the sev­enth bit of Volde­mort’s soul, the bit that’s still in his body, and I’m the one who’s go­ing to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape

along the way,’ he added, ’so much trie bet­ter tor me, so mucn the worse for him.’

There was a long si­lence. The crowd had al­most dis­persed now, the strag­glers giv­ing the mon­umen­tal fig­ure of Grawp a wide berth as he cud­dled Ha­grid, whose howls of grief were still echo­ing across the wa­ter.

‘We’ll be there, Har­ry,’ said Ron.

‘What?’

At your aunt and un­cle’s house,’ said Ron. ‘And then we’ll go with you, wher­ev­er you’re go­ing.’

‘No -’ said Har­ry quick­ly; he had not count­ed on this, he had meant them to un­der­stand that he was un­der­tak­ing this most dan­ger­ous jour­ney alone.

‘You said to us once be­fore,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly, ‘that there was time to turn back if we want­ed to. We’ve had time, haven’t we?’

‘We’re with you what­ev­er hap­pens,’ said Ron. ‘But, mate, you’re go­ing to have to come round my mum and dad’s house be­fore we do any­thing else, even Go­dric’s Hol­low.’

‘Why?’

‘Bill and Fleur’s wed­ding, re­mem­ber?’

Har­ry looked at him, star­tled; the idea that any­thing as nor­mal as a wed­ding could still ex­ist seemed in­cred­ible and yet won­der­ful.

‘Yeah, we shouldn’t miss that,’ he said fi­nal­ly.

His hand closed au­to­mat­ical­ly around the fake Hor­crux, but in spite of ev­ery­thing, in spite of the dark and twist­ing path he saw stretch­ing ahead for him­self, in spite of the fi­nal meet­ing with Volde­mort he knew must come, whether in a month, in a year, or in ten, he felt his heart lift at the thought that there was still one last gold­en day of peace left to en­joy with Ron and Hermione.

The End.





